Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. 5 While we believe that these actions are the appropriate response to the existing economic environment, and that they will best position us to take advantage of the current environment in the short term and then resume our traditional growth strategy in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. See Growth and Investment Strategies and Financing of the Companys Growth Strategies below for more information regarding our traditional long term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of the Company. Competition Self storage facilities generally draw customers from residents within a three to five mile radius. Many of our facilities operate within three to five miles of well located and well managed competitors that seek the same group of customers through many of the same marketing channels we use, including yellow page advertising, Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners. As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities. While competition is significant, the self storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own approximately 5% of the aggregate self storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest self storage operators in the U.S. own only approximately 10% of the aggregate self storage space in the U.S., with the remaining 90% owned by numerous private regional and local operators. This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of scale and our brand relative to other operators (see Business Attributes Economies of Scale below), and could result in potential growth in our platform through acquisitions over the long term. In seeking investments, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors. The amount of funds available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments. Business Attributes We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively: Centralized information networks: Our facilities are part of comprehensive centralized reporting and information networks which enable the management team to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data, and quickly change our properties pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis. National Telephone Reservation System: We operate a centralized telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service and helps to maximize utilization of available self storage space. Customers calling either the toll free telephone referral system, (800) 44 STORE, or a storage facility, are directed to the national reservation system. A representative discusses with the customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the customer of other products and services provided by the Company and its subsidiaries. We believe that the centralized telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage space in the U.S. relative to handling these calls at individual properties, because it allows us to more effectively offer all spaces at all facilities in the vicinity of a customer and to provide higher quality selling efforts through dedicated sales specialists. We also provide customers the opportunity to review space availability and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com. Economies of scale: We are the largest provider of self storage space in the U.S. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 2,010 self storage facilities in which we had an interest and managed 32 self storage facilities for third parties. These facilities are generally located in major markets within 38 states in the U.S. At December 31, 2009, we had over one million self storage spaces rented. The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, pricing of our product, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures. We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each other. 6 We can economically purchase large, prominent, well placed yellow page ads that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators. We are also able to purchase and bid aggressively for multiple keyword advertising on national Internet search engines. In addition, we are able to market efficiently using television as a media source. The concentration of most of our properties in major metropolitan centers makes various promotional and media programs, such as television, yellow pages, and Internet keyword bidding, far more economical for us than for our competitors. Brand name recognition: Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the Public Storage brand name, which we believe is the most recognized and established name in the self storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states, giving us national recognition and prominence. Our facilities tend to be highly visible and located in heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our brand. We believe that the Shurgard brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a similarly established and valuable brand. Complementary ancillary operations: Through a taxable REIT subsidiary, we sell retail items associated with the storage business and reinsure policies issued to our tenants against lost or damaged goods stored by tenants in our storage facilities. We believe these activities supplement and strengthen our existing self storage business by further meeting the needs of storage customers. Growth and Investment Strategies As described more specifically in The Impact of Current Economic Factors above, our growth strategies have been revised in the short run to respond to current market conditions. Over the long run, our growth strategies have consisted of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self storage properties, (ii) acquiring properties that are owned or operated by others in the U.S., (iii) developing or redeveloping existing U.S. real estate facilities, (iv) participating in the growth of commercial facilities owned primarily by PSB, and (v) capitalizing on the growth of facilities owned by Shurgard Europe in the European market. In addition to certain revisions to these strategies described below, our strategy has been revised in the short run to take advantage of dislocation in current capital markets. Improve the operating performance of existing properties: Demand for our self storage facilities has been negatively impacted over the past two years by the current recessionary trends, and revenue and net operating income have both declined in 2009. Over the long run we seek to increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self storage properties by a) regularly evaluating our call volume, reservation activity, and move in/move out rates for each of our properties relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these analyses, adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and d) controlling expense levels. We believe that our property management personnel and systems, combined with our national telephone reservation system and media advertising programs will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis below for further information regarding our expectation in the short run with respect to our operating results. Acquire properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.: Our long run strategy has included acquiring well located facilities owned or operated by others in the U.S. that fit well within our geographic profile, at generally attractive pricing. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the self storage industry. Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities, which are often located in proximity to potential acquisition candidates, provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities. In the short run, we believe that there may be more attractive opportunities for the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face loan covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether the banks and other lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which would force a sale of the properties of these distressed owners, rather than extending existing loans or waiving covenant violations. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders desire to extend these loans rather than foreclose. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities may materialize in the future. 7 Development of real estate facilities: We believe that in the long run, development of new storage locations and expansion of our existing self storage facilities represent an important part of our growth strategy. New locations can be developed to meet customer needs and expand our geographic reach, generally within our existing markets. In addition, existing facilities can be expanded or enhanced to provide additional amenities such as climate control, to better capitalize on increased population density in certain facilities local market area. However, in light of current capital market conditions, doubt as to the potential lease up of new storage space in the face of reduced demand, and the increased potential in the short run for attractive acquisitions of existing facilities described above, we substantially curtailed our development pipeline. Accordingly, in 2009 our investment in the development of real estate facilities was minimal, and we continue to have nominal development pipeline at December 31, 2009. Shurgard Europe has similarly reduced its development activities (see Capitalize on the Potential for Growth in Europe below). Participate in the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS Business Parks, Inc.: At December 31, 2009, we had a 41% common equity interest in PSB and its operating partnership which consisted of 5,801,606 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in the Operating Partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one for one basis into PSB common stock. At December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states in the U.S. During 2009 and 2008, the recession in the U.S. impacted PSB resulting in a decrease in new rental rates over expiring rents, as well as declining occupancy levels in 2009 and in the last six months of 2008. It is uncertain what impact the current recessionary trends will have on PSBs future occupancy levels and rental rents. PSB may continue to experience downward pressure on its occupancy levels and rental rates. Due to capital market dislocations and other factors, PSB did not acquire any new commercial space in 2009 and 2008. Capitalize on the potential for growth in Europe: On March 31, 2008, we entered into the Europe Transaction with an institutional investor whereby the investor acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europe held substantially all of our operations in Europe. Since March 31, 2008, we own the remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings LLC, a new joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europes operations. We believe that Shurgard Europe is the largest owner and operator of self storage facilities in Western Europe. At December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europes operations comprise 187 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet. The portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest. Shurgard Europe operates in seven markets in Western Europe: the French market (principally Paris), the Swedish market (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom market (principally London), the Dutch market, the Belgian market, the Danish market (principally Copenhagen) and the German market. In contrast to the U.S., the European self storage industry is relatively immature. In each of the markets that Shurgard Europe operates customer awareness of the product is relatively low and ownership of self storage facilities remains fragmented. Although many European consumers are not yet aware of the self storage concept, they tend to live in more densely populated areas in smaller living spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe, should make self storage an attractive option as product knowledge and availability of additional self storage facilities grows. Most Europeans are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary service provided by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity could result in a significant increase in demand in the long term. 8 In the longer term, we believe that there is significant growth potential in Europe to expand the number of facilities owned either through development, acquisition, and consolidation, even if the density of self storage in Europe does not ultimately approach the levels in the U.S. However, ultimately capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital to develop new self storage facilities in what could be a process extending through a few decades in time frame, similar to the trajectory of the U.S. self storage industry since its inception in the mid 1960s. Shurgard Europe, and its ability and wherewithal to take advantage of these opportunities, has been impacted by the same economic trends that have negatively impacted our domestic self storage operations and capital markets. In addition to the operating uncertainties that we face, Shurgard Europe faces refinancing risk, as approximately $168 million (117 million) and $153 million (107 million) of debt owed by joint ventures matures in July 2010 and May 2011, respectively, and approximately $561.7 million (391.9 million) in a loan payable to us becomes due in March 2013. Accordingly, Shurgard Europe has taken many of the same steps that we have domestically, by curtailing its development activities. At such time that public market capital or bank debt becomes available to Shurgard Europe to refinance its existing debt and economic trends improve, development and growth may recommence; however, there can be no assurance that such development and growth will ultimately recommence and at what levels. Take advantage of dislocation in capital markets: At December 31, 2009, we have cash balances on hand of approximately $763.8 million. On February 12, 2009, in accordance with an any and all tender offer, we acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our Senior Unsecured Debt. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our preferred shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions for an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4 million. There could be opportunities for future acquisition of our own outstanding debt and equity securities, particularly if there were a return to the same acute turbulence in the credit and equity markets which occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Any future such transactions will depend upon our evaluation of the return of such investments relative to our other investment alternatives. There can be no assurance that any future such transactions will occur or the potential yield on such transactions. Financing of the Companys Growth Strategies Impact of Current Capital Markets: As described above in The Impact of Current Economic Factors, one of our traditional sources of external capital is, through the issuance of preferred securities and, although we have not attempted to issue additional preferred securities over the past twelve months, we believe that we could issue additional preferred securities on a limited basis. While we expect continued improvement in the capital markets to issue preferred securities, there can be no assurance as to when market conditions will improve for preferred securities issuances at amounts and at rates that we will find reasonable. Overview of financing strategy: Over the past three years we have funded substantially all the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities with permanent capital (predominantly retained cash flow and the net proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt, because of certain benefits described in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our present intention is to continue to finance substantially all our growth with cash on hand ($763.8 million at December 31, 2009), internally generated cash flows and permanent capital. Borrowing: We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary bridge financing, and repaid those amounts with permanent capital. Our debt outstanding currently represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay. While it is not our present intention to issue additional debt as a long term financing strategy, we have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our objectives without a vote of our shareholders. Our senior debt has an A credit rating by Standard and Poors combined with our low level of debt, we believe we could issue a significant amount of unsecured debt, at attractive rates, in the current markets. These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in Limitations on Debt below. 9 Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past, most notably the issuance of 38,913,187 common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006. Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities. Joint Venture financing: We have historically formed and may form additional joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future developments or acquisitions. Disposition of properties: We historically have disposed of self storage facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not. Investments in Real Estate and Real Estate Entities Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote: Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self storage properties (the nature of our self storage properties is described in Item 2, Properties), as well as partial interests in entities that own self storage properties. Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self storage facilities that are managed by us under the Public Storage brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the Shurgard Storage Centers brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe. Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest. To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, Properties), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB. Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries In addition to our direct ownership of 1,523 self storage facilities in the U.S. and one self storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2009 with an aggregate of approximately 98 million net rentable square feet, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 468 self storage facilities in the U.S. with approximately 28 million net rentable square feet. In addition to our self storage space, we own approximately 1.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space primarily located adjacent to our self storage facilities. Because of our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements. Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Entities At December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in PSB, which owned approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space at December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe, which had ownership interests in 187 facilities with approximately 10 million net rentable square feet of storage space, and certain limited partnerships owning an aggregate of 19 self storage facilities with approximately 1 million net rentable square feet of storage space. Collectively these entities are referred to as the Unconsolidated Entities. 10 PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that are not included in our consolidated financial statements. The limited partnerships have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Entities. Limitations on Debt Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in a ratio of Debt to Assets (the Debt Ratio) in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2009, the Debt Ratio was approximately 4%. Debt means the liabilities (other than accrued and other liabilities and redeemable noncontrolling interests) that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. Assets means our total assets before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on the consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default. Employees We have approximately 4,900 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2009 who render services on behalf of the Company, primarily personnel engaged in property operations. None of our employees in the U.S. are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are generally amicable. Seasonality We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months. Insurance We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles. The aggregate limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage and $102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted. Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named perils (earthquakes and floods are not covered by these policies) to goods stored by tenants at our self storage facilities for individual limits up to a maximum of $5,000. We have third party insurance coverage for claims paid exceeding $1,000,000 resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of $25,000,000. At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 585,000 certificate holders held by our tenants, participating in this program representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.3 billion. Because each certificate represents insurance of goods held by a tenant at our self storage facilities, the geographic concentration of this $1.3 billion in coverage is dispersed throughout all of our U.S. facilities. We rely on a third party insurance company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states. 11 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10 K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company. This section contains forward looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward looking statements that are described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1. Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. Since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate related assets, including: lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale; changes in general economic or local conditions; natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods; which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage; potential terrorist attacks; changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; the impact of environmental protection laws; changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets; increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses; transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes; adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and tenant and employment related claims. In addition, we self insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third party insurers. This results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third party insurance contracts, as described in Note 13 under Insurance and Loss Exposure to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. There is significant competition among self storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. Most of our properties are self storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Local market conditions will play a significant part in how competition will affect us. Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located from other self storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant and has affected the occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses of most of our properties. Any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. Further development of self storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. 12 We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities. As an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. Certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owners or operators ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as collateral. We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and intend to conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. These assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. In connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these facilities. In this regard, some of our facilities are or may be the subject of federal or state environmental investigations or remedial actions. We have obtained, with respect to recent acquisitions, and intend to obtain with respect to pending or future acquisitions, appropriate purchase price adjustments or indemnifications that we believe are sufficient to cover any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available to cover any liability from environmental contamination or potential contamination and we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts. We seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. Delays in development and fill up of our properties would reduce our profitability. From January 1, 2005, through December 31, 2009, we opened 17 newly developed self storage facilities in the U.S. at a cost of approximately $142 million. Shurgard Europe has developed and opened 55 facilities since January 1, 2005 at a cost of approximately $426 million, and has two development projects under construction with total estimated costs of $24 million. Delays in the rent up of newly developed storage space as a result of competition or other factors, including the slowdown in the general economy which has negatively impacted storage demand, would adversely impact our profitability. If we or Shurgard Europe were to commence significant development of facilities, construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, personnel problems, and other factors, as well as cost overruns, would adversely affect our profitability. Property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. Each of our properties is subject to real property taxes. These real property taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. Recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels. Such increases could adversely impact our profitability. 13 We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. All our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations (the ADA). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities, but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. Various state laws impose similar requirements. A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state laws could result in government imposed fines on us and could award damages to individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. Compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. We incur liability from tenant and employment related claims. From time to time we must resolve tenant claims and employment related claims by corporate level and field personnel. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. There continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. These negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely affect disposable incomes, have and are likely to continue to adversely affect our business. As a further result of the current global financial crisis, our ability to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates has been and may continue to be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. While we currently believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual, long term continued turbulence in the credit markets and in the national economy may adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. We grow our business primarily through acquisitions of existing properties and are subject to risks related to acquisitions that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. We grow our business in large part through the acquisition of existing properties, including acquisitions of businesses owned by other storage operators. In addition to the general risks related to real estate described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our operations. Any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could negatively impact our financial results. If acquired facilities are not properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired operations with our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. To fully realize any anticipated benefits from an acquisition, we must successfully complete the combination of the businesses of Public Storage and acquired properties in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized. It is possible that the integration process could result in a decline in occupancy and or rental rates, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants and employees or to achieve anticipated benefits, particularly with large acquisitions. Acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. Facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal, which can increase property tax expense. There is a degree of uncertainty involved in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired property. In future acquisitions of properties, if actual property tax expenses following reappraisal are significantly greater than we expected, our operating results could be negatively impacted. 14 As a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of Shurgard Europe with a book value of $272.3 million at December 31, 2009, and our loan to Shurgard Europe aggregating $561.7 million at December 31, 2009, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results. We have limited experience in European operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe. In addition, European operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the following: currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our $272.3 million book value equity investment in Shurgard Europe, as well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to Shurgard Europe; unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements; potentially adverse tax burdens; burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws; the potential impact of collective bargaining; obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; regional, national and local political uncertainty; economic slowdown and or downturn in foreign markets; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; inability to effectively control less than wholly owned partnerships and joint ventures; and the importance of local senior management and the potential negative ramifications of the departure of key executives. Based upon current market conditions and recent operating result trends of Shurgard Europe, the following specific risks apply with respect to our investment in, and loan to, Shurgard Europe: 15 We have an obligation to loan up to an additional 185 million ($265.2 million at December 31, 2009) to Shurgard Europe, and provide additional equity contributions of up to $66.4 million. We have a commitment, which expires March 31, 2010, to provide up to 185 million of additional loans to Shurgard Europe under the same terms as the existing loans, to fund the possible acquisition of Shurgard Europes joint venture partners interest in the joint ventures and or repay Shurgard Europes pro rata share of the joint venture debt. In addition, we are committed to provide up to $66.4 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain other investing activities. While the acquisition of the joint venture partners interests are subject to our approval, Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and any other investing activities generally require our approval, these commitments may require us to provide additional funds to Shurgard Europe in amounts or under terms that we may not have otherwise agreed to. Joint Ventures that Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in have significant refinancing requirements. Shurgard Europes two joint ventures collectively had approximately 224 million ($321 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009. These loans are secured by the joint ventures respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe, or any third party. One of the joint venture loans, totaling 107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan, totaling 117 million ($168 million), is due in July 2010. If Shurgard Europes joint ventures were unable to refinance or otherwise repay these loans when due, it is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each joint venture partner contributing their pro rata share towards repayment. Shurgard Europes pro rata share, in the aggregate, would be approximately 50 million ($72 million) which Shurgard Europe fund either from available cash on hand or equity contributions from Public Storage and our joint venture partner. Further, it is also possible that Shurgard Europes joint venture partner would be unable to contribute its pro rata share to repay the loans and may trigger, through its rights under the related partnership documents, the liquidation of the partnership, which could result in Shurgard Europes acquisition of its joint venture partners interest or the sale of the properties to third parties, with potential loss or reduction to our investment if the liquidation proceeds were not sufficient. If Shurgard Europe were to acquire its joint venture partners interest by March 31, 2010, it could borrow on the aforementioned 185 million loan commitment we have provided to fund the purchase of the joint venture partners interest and repayment of the loans. Shurgard Europes ability to refinance its $561.7 million loan from us, which is due in March 2013, may be limited if current market conditions persist. We have loaned Shurgard Europe 391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31, 2009), and this loan is due in March 2013. If the currently constrained capital market and bank loan availability persists, it is likely that Shurgard Europe may be unable to refinance the entire loan. If Shurgard Europe is unable to obtain financing to raise funds to repay our loan, we may have to negotiate an equity or debt contribution by our joint venture partner to Shurgard Europe, extend the loan, or otherwise take steps under our lender rights. Any of these steps could negatively impact our investment and the liquidity of Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europes operating trends are negative. Shurgard Europes same store revenue is down 3.6% in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008 on a constant exchange rate basis. Shurgard Europe may have continued reductions in same store revenues, which will adversely impact their operating results and, as a result, the value of our investment in Shurgard Europe. Such reductions may negatively impact Shurgard Europes liquidity and ability to repay its debt, including the debt owed to Public Storage, due to declining interest coverage ratios and other similar metrics upon which potential lenders typically base their lending decisions. We are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures. In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Shurgard and the acquisition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe by an institutional investor on March 31, 2008, we have interests in several joint ventures. Joint ventures may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following: 16 Risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner. The inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree. The risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments. The risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate. The risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as collateral. The risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could not prevent these actions. The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to non compete clauses in our joint venture arrangements. The risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners. The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. At December 31, 2009, B. Wayne Hughes, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and his family (the Hughes Family) owned approximately 17.3% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares and also allows for cumulative voting in the election of trustees. Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our shares. Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the control share acquisitions provisions of Maryland law, but the Board may change this option as to either statute in the future. If the Board chooses to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. Similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Boards ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in common shareholders best interest. 17 To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code, our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than designated investment entities (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. These limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. If we failed to qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes. REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year). Other restrictions apply to our income and assets. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. Furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. We have also assumed, based on Shurgard Storage Center, Inc.s public filings and due diligence performed in connection with our acquisition of Shurgard, that Shurgard qualified as a REIT through the date of the Shurgard Merger on August 22, 2006. However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities (including the significant tax liability that would have resulted from the deemed sale of assets by Shurgard to us as part of the Shurgard Merger). We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries of the Company for federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. In addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among our taxable REIT subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts the Internal Revenue Service deems reasonable between unrelated parties. To the extent that the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. We have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the Internet and are faced with system security risks. We have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems are dependent upon third party providers. As a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party providers. Even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication and back up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could negatively impact our operations. In addition, a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet, increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. Experienced computer programmers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Nearly half of our move ins comes from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or Internet). 18 We have no interest in Canadian self storage facilities owned by the Hughes Family. The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 52 self storage facilities in Canada under the name Public Storage, which name we license to the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a non exclusive basis. We currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in Canada. We have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self storage facilities in Canada if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them. However, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self storage facilities. Although we have no current plans to enter the Canadian self storage market, if we choose to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in their Canadian self storage properties, our right to use the Public Storage name in Canada may be shared with the Hughes Family unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self storage facilities in Canada in which the Hughes Family has ownership interests. We acquired the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS Insurance Company, or PSICH. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PSICH received $642,000 and $768,000, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian Facilities. Since PSICHs right to provide tenant reinsurance to the Canadian Facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as current federal legislative proposals to expand health care coverage costs or facilitate union activity or otherwise increase operating costs. Our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. We hold Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. This state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we provide or the methods by which we provide products and services, or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past. For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our revenues. 19 Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S., the European Community, or their businesses or interests. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are headquartered in, and approximately one fifth of our properties in the U.S. are located in California. The state of California and many local jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes on commercial properties, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed Business Net Receipts Tax or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to reenact legislation mandating medical insurance for employees of California businesses and members of their families. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 20 ITEM 2. Properties At December 31, 2009, we had direct and indirect ownership interests in 2,010 and 188 storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. and seven Western European nations, respectively: At December 31, 2009 Number of Storage Facilities (a) Net Rentable Square Feet (in thousands) United States: California: Southern 204 14,231 Northern 170 9,927 Texas 236 15,493 Florida 191 12,520 Illinois 123 7,800 Washington 91 6,028 Georgia 92 5,964 North Carolina 69 4,775 Virginia 78 4,453 New York 62 4,015 Colorado 59 3,713 New Jersey 56 3,524 Maryland 56 3,290 Minnesota 44 2,990 Michigan 43 2,755 Arizona 37 2,259 South Carolina 40 2,155 Missouri 37 2,136 Oregon 39 2,006 Indiana 31 1,926 Pennsylvania 28 1,867 Ohio 30 1,860 Nevada 24 1,561 Tennessee 27 1,528 Kansas 22 1,310 Massachusetts 19 1,179 Wisconsin 15 968 Other states (12 states) 87 4,813 Total U.S. 2,010 127,046 Europe (b): France 56 2,958 Netherlands 39 2,078 Sweden 30 1,614 Belgium 21 1,254 United Kingdom 21 1,119 Germany 11 552 Denmark 10 550 Total Europe 188 10,125 Grand Total 2,198 137,171 (a) See Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation in the Companys 2009 financials, for a complete list of properties consolidated by the Company. (b) The facilities located in Europe include one facility in the United Kingdom that we wholly own, as well as the facilities in which Shurgard Europe has an ownership interest. 21 Our facilities are generally operated to maximize cash flow through the regular review and adjustment of rents charged to our tenants. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average occupancy level and the average realized rent per occupied square foot for our self storage facilities were approximately 88% and $12.77, respectively, in the U.S. and 79% and $25.43, respectively, in Europe. At December 31, 2009, 89 of our U.S. facilities were encumbered by an aggregate of $227 million in secured notes payable. We have no specific policy as to the maximum size of any one particular self storage facility. However, none of our facilities involves, or is expected to involve, 1% or more of our total assets, gross revenues or net income. Description of Self Storage Facilities: Self storage facilities, which comprise the majority of our investments, are designed to offer accessible storage space for personal and business use at a relatively low cost. A user rents a fully enclosed space, securing the space with their own lock, which is for the users exclusive use and to which only the user has access on an unrestricted basis during business hours. On site operation is the responsibility of property managers who are supervised by district managers. Some self storage facilities also include rentable uncovered parking areas for vehicle storage. Storage facility spaces are rented on a month to month basis. Rental rates vary according to the location of the property, the size of the storage space, and other characteristics that affect the relative attractiveness of each particular space, such as whether the space has drive up access or its proximity to elevators. All of our self storage facilities in the U.S. are operated under the "Public Storage" brand name, while our facilities in Europe are operated under the Shurgard Storage Centers brand name. Users of space in self storage facilities include individuals from virtually all demographic groups, as well as businesses. Individuals usually obtain this space for storage of furniture, household appliances, personal belongings, motor vehicles, boats, campers, motorcycles and other household goods. Businesses normally employ this space for storage of excess inventory, business records, seasonal goods, equipment and fixtures. Our self storage facilities generally consist of three to seven buildings containing an aggregate of between 350 to 750 storage spaces, most of which have between 25 and 400 square feet and an interior height of approximately eight to 12 feet. We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months. Our self storage facilities are geographically diversified and are located primarily in or near major metropolitan markets in 38 states in the U.S. and seven Western European nations. Generally our self storage facilities are located in heavily populated areas and close to concentrations of apartment complexes, single family residences and commercial developments. However, there may be circumstances in which it may be appropriate to own a property in a less populated area, for example, in an area that is highly visible from a major thoroughfare and close to, although not in, a heavily populated area. Moreover, in certain population centers, land costs and zoning restrictions may create a demand for space in nearby less populated areas. Competition from other self storage facilities as well as other forms of storage in the market areas in which most of our properties are located in the U.S., and certain of our properties in Western Europe, is significant and has affected the occupancy levels, rental rates, and operating expenses of many of our properties. Since our investments are primarily self storage facilities, our ability to preserve our investments and achieve our objectives is dependent in large part upon success in this field. We believe that self storage facilities, upon stabilization, have attractive characteristics consisting of high profit margins, a broad tenant base and low levels of capital expenditures to maintain their condition and appearance. While we have seen a decrease in cash flow generation at our same store facilities in 2009 due primarily to the high unemployment, historically, upon stabilization after an initial fill up period, the U.S. self storage facilities we have an interest in have generally shown a high degree of consistency in generating cash flows. 22 Commercial Properties: In addition to our interests in 2,198 self storage facilities, we have an interest in PSB, which, as of December 31, 2009, owns and operates approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space in eight states. At December 31, 2009, the $326 million book value of our investment in PSB represents approximately 3% of our total assets. The $656 million market value of our investment in PSB at December 31, 2009 represents approximately 7% of the book value of our total assets. We also directly own 1.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space, primarily located at our existing self storage locations, comprised primarily of individual retail locations. This space is managed for us by PSB. The commercial properties owned by PSB consist primarily of flex, multi tenant office and industrial space. Flex space is defined as buildings that are configured with a combination of office and warehouse space and can be designed to fit a wide variety of uses (including office, assembly, showroom, laboratory, light manufacturing and warehouse space). Environmental Matters: Our policy is to accrue environmental assessments and estimated remediation cost when it is probable that such efforts will be required and the related costs can be reasonably estimated. Our current practice is to conduct environmental investigations in connection with property acquisitions. Although there can be no assurance, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of any of our facilities, which individually or in the aggregate would be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operations. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings Brinkley v. Public Storage, Inc. (filed April 2005) (Superior Court of California Los Angeles County) The plaintiff sued the Company on behalf of a purported class of California non exempt employees based on various California wage and hour laws. Plaintiff sought certification for alleged meal period violations, rest period violations, failure to pay for travel time, failure to pay for mileage reimbursement, and for wage statement violations. The Court certified subclasses based only on alleged meal period and wage statement violations. In June 2007, the Court granted the Companys summary judgment motion as to the causes of action relating to the subclasses certified and dismissed those claims. Plaintiff appealed. The Court of Appeals sustained the dismissal. The California Supreme Court granted review but deferred the matter pending disposition of a related issue in another case. Other Items We are a party to various claims, complaints, and other legal actions that have arisen in the normal course of business from time to time that are not described above. We believe that it is unlikely that the outcome of these other pending legal proceedings including employment and tenant claims, in the aggregate, will have a material adverse impact upon our operations or financial position. 23 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities a. Market Information of the Registrants Common Equity: Our Common Shares (NYSE: PSA), including those of Public Storage, Inc. prior to our reorganization in June 2007, have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since October 19, 1984. Our Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A (NYSE:PSAA) (see section c. below), including those of Public Storage, Inc. prior to our reorganization in June 2007 have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since February 14, 2000. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange composite tapes for the applicable periods. Range Year Quarter High Low 2008 1st $ 94.98 $ 65.66 2nd 98.01 78.85 3rd 102.48 75.00 4th 105.87 52.52 2009 1st 79.88 45.35 2nd 68.97 53.32 3rd 79.47 61.35 4th 85.10 70.76 The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A on the New York Stock Exchange composite tapes for the applicable periods. Range Year Quarter High Low 2008 1st $ 26.00 $ 24.14 2nd 26.33 25.05 3rd 26.50 24.50 4th 26.05 18.12 2009 1st 25.00 21.38 2nd 25.40 21.39 3rd 25.68 24.17 4th 32.35 25.10 As of February 15, 2010, there were approximately 18,788 holders of record of Common Shares and approximately 9,190 holders of Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A. b. Dividends We have paid quarterly distributions to our shareholders since 1981, our first full year of operations. During 2009, we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $0.55 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. Total distributions on common shares for 2009 amounted to $370.4 million or $2.20 per share. During 2008, we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $0.55 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, and a distribution of $1.15 per common share (including a $0.60 per share special dividend) for the quarter ended December 31. Total distributions on common shares for 2008 amounted to $470.8 million or $2.80 per share. Included in these amounts are $101.0 million or $0.60 per common share with respect to a special cash dividend paid in December 2008. During 2007, we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $0.50 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. Total distributions on common shares for 2007 amounted to $338.7 million or $2.00 per share. 24 Holders of common shares are entitled to receive distributions when and if declared by our Board of Trustees out of any funds legally available for that purpose. In order to maintain our REIT status for federal income tax purposes, we are generally required to pay dividends at least equal to 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income for the taxable year (for this purpose, certain dividends paid in the subsequent year may be taken into account). We intend to continue to pay distributions sufficient to permit us to maintain our REIT status. For Federal income tax purposes, distributions to shareholders are treated as ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For 2009, the dividends paid on common shares ($2.20 per share), on all the various classes of preferred shares, and on our Equity Shares, Series A were classified as follows: 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Ordinary Income 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 98.5716 % 100.0000 % Long term Capital Gain 0.0000 % 0.0000 % 1.4284 % 0.0000 % Total 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % For 2008, the dividends paid on common shares ($2.80 per share), on all the various classes of preferred shares, and on our Equity Shares, Series A were classified as follows: 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Ordinary Income 99.9668 % 99.6512 % 99.8319 % 100.0000 % Long term Capital Gain 0.0332 % 0.3488 % 0.1681 % 0.0000 % Total 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % c. Equity Shares The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 Equity Shares. Our declaration of trust provides that the Equity Shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series and gives the Board of Trustees broad authority to fix the dividend and distribution rights, conversion and voting rights, redemption provisions and liquidation rights of each series of Equity Shares. At December 31, 2009, we had 8,377,193 Depositary Shares outstanding, each representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A. The Equity Shares, Series A rank on a parity with our common shares and junior to the Senior Preferred Shares with respect to distributions and liquidation and has a liquidation amount which cannot exceed $24.50 per share. Distributions with respect to each depositary share shall be the lesser of: a) five times the per share dividend on the Common Shares or b) $2.45 per annum. Except in order to preserve the Companys Federal income tax status as a REIT, we may not redeem the depositary shares before March 31, 2010. If the Company fails to preserve its Federal income tax status as a REIT, each depositary share will be convertible into 0.956 of our common shares. The depositary shares are otherwise not convertible into common shares. Holders of depositary shares vote as a single class with our holders of common shares on shareholder matters, but the depositary shares have the equivalent of one tenth of a vote per depositary share. We have no obligation to pay distributions on the depositary shares if no distributions are paid to common shareholders. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly distributions to the holders of the Equity Shares, Series A of $0.6125 per share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. Pursuant to our option to redeem the security after March 31, 2010, on April 15, 2010, we will be redeeming all of our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash redemption price of $24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2 million. Since the initial issuance of these securities, the annual dividend paid has been $2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield of 10%. 25 In November 1999, we sold $100,000,000 (4,289,544 shares) of Equity Shares, Series AAA (Equity Shares AAA) to a newly formed joint venture. The Equity Shares AAA ranks on a parity with common shares and junior to the Senior Preferred Shares with respect to general preference rights, and has a liquidation amount equal to 120% of the amount distributed to each common share. Annual distributions per share are equal to the lesser of (i) five times the amount paid per common share or (ii) $2.1564. We have no obligation to pay distributions if no distributions are paid to common shareholders. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly distributions to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, which is the holder of the Equity Shares, Series AAA of $0.5391 per share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. d. Common Share Repurchases Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2007 and 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares. During 2008, we repurchased 1,520,196 common shares for approximately $111.9 million. From the inception of the repurchase program through February 26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million. Our common share repurchase program does not have an expiration date and there are 11,278,084 common shares that may yet be repurchased under our repurchase program as of December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares outside our publicly announced repurchase program. Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common shares. 26 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data For the year ended December 31, 2009 2008 (1)(2) 2007 (1)(2) 2006 (1)(2) 2005 (2) (Amounts in thousands, except per share data) Revenues: Rental income and ancillary operations $ 1,597,889 $ 1,687,438 $ 1,775,785 $ 1,317,963 $ 1,012,264 Interest and other income 29,813 36,155 11,417 31,799 16,447 1,627,702 1,723,593 1,787,202 1,349,762 1,028,711 Expenses: Cost of operations (excluding depreciation) 522,939 555,618 631,154 471,725 352,343 Depreciation and amortization 340,233 411,981 619,598 435,496 193,167 General and administrative 35,735 62,809 59,749 84,661 21,115 Interest expense 29,916 43,944 63,671 33,062 8,216 928,823 1,074,352 1,374,172 1,024,944 574,841 Income from continuing operations before equity in earnings of real estate entities, gain (loss) on disposition of real estate investments, gain on early retirement of debt, casualty gain or loss, and foreign currency exchange gain (loss) net 698,879 649,241 413,030 324,818 453,870 Equity in earnings of real estate entities 53,244 20,391 12,738 11,895 24,883 Gain on disposition of real estate investments, early retirement of debt and casualty gain or loss, net 37,540 336,020 5,212 2,177 1,182 Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 9,662 (25,362 ) 58,444 4,262 Income from continuing operations 799,325 980,290 489,424 343,152 479,935 Discontinued operations and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (8,869 ) (6,418 ) (2,346 ) 2,757 9,109 Net income 790,456 973,872 487,078 345,909 489,044 Net income allocated from (to) noncontrolling equity interests 44,165 (38,696 ) (29,543 ) (31,883 ) (32,651 ) Net income allocable to Public Storage shareholders $ 834,621 $ 935,176 $ 457,535 $ 314,026 $ 456,393 Per Common Share: Distributions $ 2.20 $ 2.80 $ 2.00 $ 2.00 $ 1.90 Net income Basic $ 3.48 $ 4.19 $ 1.18 $ 0.33 $ 1.98 Net income Diluted $ 3.47 $ 4.18 $ 1.17 $ 0.33 $ 1.97 Weighted average common shares Basic 168,358 168,250 169,342 142,760 128,159 Weighted average common shares Diluted 168,768 168,675 169,850 143,344 128,686 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 9,805,645 $ 9,936,045 $ 10,643,102 $ 11,198,473 $ 5,552,486 Total debt $ 518,889 $ 643,811 $ 1,069,928 $ 1,848,542 $ 149,647 Public Storage shareholders equity $ 8,928,407 $ 8,708,995 $ 8,763,129 $ 8,208,045 $ 4,817,009 Permanent noncontrolling interests equity $ 132,974 $ 358,109 $ 500,127 $ 499,178 $ 253,970 Other Data: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,112,857 $ 1,076,971 $ 1,047,652 $ 769,440 $ 691,327 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (91,409 ) $ 340,018 $ (261,876 ) $ (473,630 ) $ (452,425 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (938,401 ) $ (984,076 ) $ (1,081,504 ) $ (244,395 ) $ (121,146 ) (1) The significant increase in our revenues, cost of operations, depreciation and amortization, and interest expense in 2006 and 2007, and the significant increase in total assets, total debt and shareholders equity in 2006, is due to our acquisition of Shurgard Storage Centers in August 2006. The significant decrease in our revenues, cost of operations, depreciation and amortization, and interest expense in 2008, and the significant decrease in total assets, total debt and other equity in 2008, is due to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008. See Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further information. (2) As further discussed in Note 2 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, certain amounts have been restated as a result of the application of certain new accounting standards on January 1, 2009, which standards required retroactive application. 27 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Forward Looking Statements: This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storages actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. As a result, you should not rely on any forward looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where expressly required by law. Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward looking statements to anticipate future results. Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (SEC). Critical Accounting Policies Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The notes to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Management believes the following are critical accounting policies, the application of which has a material impact on the Companys financial presentation. That is, they are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Qualification as a REIT Income Tax Expense: We believe that we have been organized and operated, and we intend to continue to operate, as a qualifying REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state laws. We also believe that Shurgard, prior to merging with us, qualified as a REIT. A REIT generally does not pay corporate level federal income taxes on its REIT taxable income that is distributed to its shareholders, and accordingly, we do not pay federal income tax on the share of our REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. We therefore do not estimate or accrue any federal income tax expense for income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be incorrect, because due to the complex nature of the REIT qualification requirements, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we actually have satisfied or will satisfy the requirements for taxation as a REIT for any particular taxable year. For any taxable year that we fail or have failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we made or make any distributions to our shareholders. Any resulting requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable penalties or interest, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also would not be eligible to elect REIT status for any taxable year prior to the fifth taxable year which begins after the first taxable year for which a REIT status was terminated. There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory relief. In addition, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we would succeed to significant tax liabilities. 28 Impairment of Long Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of real estate which are long lived assets. The evaluation of our long lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of impairment exist, which is a subjective process. When any indicators of impairment are found, the evaluation of such long lived assets then entails projections of future operating cash flows, which also involves significant judgment. Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future that our long lived assets are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Estimated Useful Lives of Long Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of depreciable or amortizable long lived assets. We record depreciation and amortization expense with respect to these assets based upon their estimated useful lives. Any change in the estimated useful lives of those assets, caused by functional or economic obsolescence or other factors, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Accruals for Contingencies: We are exposed to business and legal liability risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we have not accrued for certain potential liabilities because the loss is either not probable or not estimable or because we are not aware of the event. Future events and the results of pending litigation could result in such potential losses becoming probable and estimable, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Significant unaccrued losses that we have determined are at least reasonably possible are described in Note 13 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Accruals for Operating Expenses: Certain of our expenses are estimated based upon assumptions regarding past and future trends, such as losses for workers compensation and employee health plans, and estimated claims for our tenant reinsurance program. Our property tax expense, which as a real estate operator represents one of our largest expenses totaling approximately $150 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, has significant estimated components. Most notably, in certain jurisdictions we do not receive tax bills for the current fiscal year until after our earnings are finalized, and as a result, we must estimate tax expense based upon anticipated implementation of regulations and trends. If these estimates and assumptions were incorrect, our expenses could be misstated. Valuation of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations: We have estimated the fair value of real estate, intangible assets, debt, and the other assets and other liabilities acquired in business combinations, most notably the Shurgard Merger. We have acquired these assets, in certain cases, with non cash assets, most notably the 38.9 million shares that we issued to the Shurgard shareholders. These estimates are based upon many assumptions, including interest rates, market values of land and buildings in the U.S. and Europe, estimated future cash flows from the tenant base in place at the time of the merger, and the recoverability of certain assets. We believe that the assumptions used were reasonable, however, these assumptions were subject to a significant degree of judgment, and others could use different assumptions and therefore come to materially different conclusions as to the estimated values. If estimated values had been different, our depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, gain on disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, investments in real estate entities, real estate, debt, and intangible assets could be materially different. Overview of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Operations Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month to month basis, for personal and business use. We are the largest owner and operator of self storage facilities in the U.S., and we have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe, which we believe is the largest owner and operator of self storage facilities in Europe. 29 We currently operate within three reportable segments: (i) Domestic Self Storage, (ii) Europe Self Storage and (iii) Commercial. The Domestic Self Storage segment comprises the direct and indirect ownership, development, and operation of storage facilities in the U.S. Our Europe Self Storage segment comprises our equity interest in the self storage operations in Europe through our 49% ownership in Shurgard Europe and its associated activities in seven countries in Western Europe. Our Commercial segment includes our commercial property operations, directly and through our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (PSB), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PSB (as of December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space). See Investment in PSB under Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities below for information regarding transactions related to our investment in PSB recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009. Our other activities not allocated to any segment include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self storage facilities, (ii) merchandise sales at our self storage facilities and (iii) management of self storage facilities owned by third party owners and domestic facilities owned by the affiliated entities that are not consolidated. During 2009, we decided to terminate our containerized storage and truck rental operations. Accordingly, the related results of operations have been included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income. Our self storage facilities in the U.S. comprise approximately 93% of our operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, and represent the primary driver of growth in our net income and cash flows from operations. In addition, most of our ancillary revenues are derived at our self storage facility locations, either from our existing self storage customer base or from the customer traffic within our self storage facilities. Accordingly, a large portion of management time and focus is placed upon maximizing revenues and effectively managing expenses in our self storage facilities. The self storage industry is subject to general economic conditions, particularly those that affect the disposable income and spending of consumers, as well as those that affect moving trends. Due to the recessionary pressures in the U.S. and Europe, demand for self storage space was soft in 2009 and continues to be soft. As a result, we are experiencing downward pressure on occupancy levels, rental rates, and revenues in our self storage facilities. An important determinant of our long term growth is the expansion of our asset base and deployment of capital. Acquisitions of self storage facilities have been minimal over the past two years as we continue to monitor seller expectations. However, we believe that there may be more opportunities to acquire facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which could force a sale of the properties. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders desire to extend loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. Historically we have developed and redeveloped self storage facilities. Our development activities have substantially ceased due to the existing economic environment and our belief that our capital can be more effectively put to use in other ways. On February 12, 2009, we acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our senior unsecured debt. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our preferred shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions for an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4 million. There could be opportunities for future acquisition of our own outstanding debt and equity securities, particularly if there were a return to the same acute turbulence in the credit and equity markets which occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Any future such transactions will depend upon our evaluation of the return of such investments relative to our other investment alternatives. There can be no assurance that any future such transactions will occur or the potential yield on such transactions. We have $763.8 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2009, and continue to evaluate opportunities to effectively deploy this capital. 30 Results of Operations Operating results for 2009 as compared to 2008: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $790.5 million compared to $973.9 million for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $183.4 million. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a gain of $344.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, (ii) a $37.9 million reduction in net operating income with respect to our Same Store Facilities described below, and (iii) an impairment charge included in discontinued operations with respect to intangible assets totaling $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, partially offset by (iv) a $49.9 million reduction in depreciation and amortization related to our domestic assets, primarily representing reduced intangible amortization, (v) a foreign exchange gain of $9.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to a loss of $25.4 million during the same period in 2008, (vi) a gain on disposition of $30.3 million related to an equity offering by PSB, and (vii) a reduction in general and administrative expenses due to $27.9 million in incentive compensation incurred in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. Revenues for the Same Store Facilities decreased 3.2% or $46.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008, due to a 2.8% reduction in realized rent per occupied square foot, combined with a 0.9% reduction in average occupancies. Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities decreased 1.8% or $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. Net operating income for our Same Store Facilities decreased 3.9% or $37.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $586.0 million or $3.47 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $119.8 million or $0.71 per common share on a diluted basis. These decreases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, offset by a $44.4 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred unitholders and preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 associated with the redemption of preferred securities occurring in both periods. Operating results for 2008 as compared to 2007: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $973.9 million compared to $487.1 million for the same period in 2007, representing an improvement of $486.8 million. This improvement is primarily due to a gain of $344.7 million recognized on the disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, improvements in net operating income with respect to our domestic self storage facilities and a reduction in amortization of intangible assets, offset by a foreign currency exchange loss of $25.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to a foreign exchange gain of $58.4 million in 2007. Comparisons of our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 to the year ended December 31, 2007 are significantly impacted by the acquisition by an institutional investor of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, which resulted in the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europes revenues and expenses after March 31, 2008 are excluded from our statement of operations and, instead, our 49% equity share of Shurgard Europes operating results are included in the line item equity in earnings of real estate entities and we also record interest and other income with respect to (i) the interest received on our intercompany loan from Shurgard Europe and (ii) license fee income. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $199.0 million or $1.17 per common share for the same period in 2007, representing an increase of $506.8 million or $3.01 per common share on a diluted basis. These increases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, partially offset by a $33.9 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2008 associated with the repurchase of securities. 31 Real Estate Operations Self Storage Operations: Our self storage operations are by far the largest component of our operating activities, representing more than 90% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. To enhance year over year comparisons, the table that follows summarizes, and the ensuing discussion describes, the operating results of three groups of facilities that management analyzes: (i) the Same Store group, representing the facilities in the Domestic Self Storage Segment that we have owned and have been operating on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007, (ii) all other facilities in the Domestic Self Storage Segment, which are primarily those consolidated facilities that we have not owned and operated at a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007 such as newly acquired, newly developed, or recently expanded facilities, and (iii) the facilities operated by Shurgard Europe which were deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. Self Storage Operations Summary Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change (Dollar amounts in thousands) Rental income: Same Store Facilities $ 1,389,515 $ 1,435,630 (3.2 )% $ 1,435,630 $ 1,396,758 2.8 % Other Facilities 100,777 88,665 13.7 % 88,665 71,039 24.8 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 54,722 (100.0 )% 54,722 192,507 (71.6 )% Total rental income 1,490,292 1,579,017 (5.6 )% 1,579,017 1,660,304 (4.9 )% Cost of operations: Same Store Facilities 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Other Facilities 32,315 31,640 2.1 % 31,640 27,936 13.3 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 24,654 (100.0 )% 24,654 91,689 (73.1 )% Total cost of operations 486,928 519,090 (6.2 )% 519,090 579,193 (10.4 )% Net operating income (b): Same Store Facilities 934,902 972,834 (3.9 )% 972,834 937,190 3.8 % Other Facilities 68,462 57,025 20.1 % 57,025 43,103 32.3 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 30,068 (100.0 )% 30,068 100,818 (70.2 )% Total net operating income 1,003,364 1,059,927 (5.3 )% 1,059,927 1,081,111 (2.0 )% Total depreciation and amortization expense (337,275 ) (409,081 ) (17.6 )% (409,081 ) (617,028 ) (33.7 )% Total net income $ 666,089 $ 650,846 2.3 % $ 650,846 $ 464,083 40.2 % Data for Same Store and Other Facilities: Weighted average square foot occupancy during the period: Same Store Facilities 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % Other Facilities 84.1 % 79.0 % 6.5 % 79.0 % 70.5 % 12.1 % Realized rents per occupied square foot during the period (c): Same Store Facilities $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % Other Facilities $ 13.62 $ 14.01 (2.8 )% $ 14.01 $ 14.35 (2.4 )% Number of facilities at period end: Same Store Facilities 1,899 1,899 1,899 1,899 Other Facilities 92 91 1.1 % 91 82 11.0 % Net rentable square footage at period end (in thousands): Same Store Facilities 117,462 117,462 117,462 117,462 Other Facilities 8,500 8,360 1.7 % 8,360 7,198 16.1 % Square foot occupancy at period end: Same Store Facilities 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.9 % (0.9 )% Other Facilities 84.9 % 80.0 % 6.1 % 80.0 % 71.5 % 11.9 % 32 Self Storage Operations Summary (Continued) Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change In place rents per occupied square foot at period end (d): Same Store Facilities $ 13.46 $ 14.02 (4.0 )% $ 14.02 $ 13.89 0.9 % Other Facilities $ 14.65 $ 15.14 (3.2 )% $ 15.14 $ 15.62 (3.1 )% (a) Represents the results with respect to Shurgard Europes properties for the periods consolidated in our financial statements. As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, effective March 31, 2008, we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe. See also Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities Investment in Shurgard Europe for further analysis of the historical same store property operations of Shurgard Europe. (b) See Net Operating Income or NOI below. (c) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (d) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Net income with respect to our self storage operations increased by $15.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, when compared to the same period in 2008. This was due to a) declining amortization of tenant intangible assets, b) a 1.8% reduction in cost of operations for the Same Store facilities, and c) a $12.1 million increase in revenues with respect to the Other Facilities, offset by d) a 3.2% decrease in revenues for our Same Store facilities and e) the deconsolidation of the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. Net income with respect to our self storage operations increased by $186.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, when compared to 2007 due to decreased amortization of tenant intangible assets and increased revenues for the Same Store facilities and the Other Facilities, offset partially by the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. 33 Net Operating Income We refer herein to net operating income (NOI) of our self storage facilities, which is a non GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization are a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, property performance, and comparing period to period and market to market property operating results. In addition, we believe the investment community utilizes NOI in determining operating performance and real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization or net income in evaluating our operating results. The following reconciles NOI generated by our self storage and Shurgard Europe segments to our consolidated net income in our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Amounts in thousands) Net operating income: Same store facilities $ 934,902 $ 972,834 $ 937,190 Other facilities 68,462 57,025 43,103 Shurgard Europe facilities 30,068 100,818 Total net operating income 1,003,364 1,059,927 1,081,111 Ancillary operating revenue 107,597 108,421 115,481 Interest and other income 29,813 36,155 11,417 Ancillary cost of operations (36,011 ) (36,528 ) (51,961 ) Depreciation and amortization (340,233 ) (411,981 ) (619,598 ) General and administrative expense (35,735 ) (62,809 ) (59,749 ) Interest expense (29,916 ) (43,944 ) (63,671 ) Equity in earnings of real estate entities 53,244 20,391 12,738 Gains on disposition of real estate investments and casualty losses, net 33,426 336,020 5,212 Gain on early debt retirement 4,114 Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 9,662 (25,362 ) 58,444 Discontinued operations (8,869 ) (6,418 ) (2,346 ) Net income of the Company $ 790,456 $ 973,872 $ 487,078 34 Same Store Facilities The Same Store Facilities represents those 1,899 facilities that we have owned, and have been operated on a stabilized basis, since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table summarizes the historical operating results of these 1,899 facilities (117.5 million net rentable square feet) that represent approximately 93% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our U.S. consolidated self storage portfolio at December 31, 2009. SAME STORE FACILITIES Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change Revenues: (Dollar amounts in thousands, except weighted average amounts) Rental income $ 1,324,747 $ 1,375,484 (3.7 )% $ 1,375,484 $ 1,339,637 2.7 % Late charges and admin fees collected 64,768 60,146 7.7 % 60,146 57,121 5.3 % Total revenues (a) 1,389,515 1,435,630 (3.2 )% 1,435,630 1,396,758 2.8 % Cost of operations: Property taxes 139,776 135,825 2.9 % 135,825 132,411 2.6 % Direct property payroll 94,262 94,303 0.0 % 94,303 93,152 1.2 % Media advertising 19,795 19,853 (0.3 )% 19,853 20,917 (5.1 )% Other advertising and promotion 20,079 18,235 10.1 % 18,235 18,778 (2.9 )% Utilities 34,636 36,411 (4.9 )% 36,411 35,094 3.8 % Repairs and maintenance 38,356 42,696 (10.2 )% 42,696 43,332 (1.5 )% Telephone reservation center 11,040 12,580 (12.2 )% 12,580 12,642 (0.5 )% Property insurance 9,761 11,391 (14.3 )% 11,391 13,498 (15.6 )% Other cost of management 86,908 91,502 (5.0 )% 91,502 89,744 2.0 % Total cost of operations (a) 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Net operating income (b) 934,902 972,834 (3.9 )% 972,834 937,190 3.8 % Depreciation and amortization expense (c) (301,647 ) (344,905 ) (12.5 )% (344,905 ) (447,245 ) (22.9 )% Net income $ 633,255 $ 627,929 0.8 % $ 627,929 $ 489,945 28.2 % Gross margin (before depreciation and amortization expense) 67.3 % 67.8 % (0.7 )% 67.8 % 67.1 % 1.0 % Weighted average for the period: Square foot occupancy (d) 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (e)(f) $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % REVPAF (f)(g) $ 11.28 $ 11.71 (3.7 )% $ 11.71 $ 11.40 2.7 % Weighted average at December 31: Square foot occupancy 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.9 % (0.9 )% In place annual rent per occupied square foot (h) $ 13.46 $ 14.02 (4.0 )% $ 14.02 $ 13.89 0.9 % Total net rentable square feet (in thousands) 117,462 117,462 117,462 117,462 Number of facilities 1,899 1,899 1,899 1,899 (a) Revenues and cost of operations do not include ancillary revenues and expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance, retail sales and truck rentals. Other costs of management included in cost of operations principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of the facilities. Indirect costs principally include supervisory costs and corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the facilities. (b) See Net Operating Income above. (c) Depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 decreased, as compared to the year prior, primarily due to a reduction in amortization expense related to intangible assets that we obtained in the Shurgard Merger. 35 (d) Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period. (e) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. (f) Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (g) Realized annual rent per available foot or REVPAF is computed by dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the total available net rentable square feet for the period. (h) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities decreased approximately 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. This decrease was primarily caused by lower rental income as a result of lower average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with lower average occupancy levels. For 2009, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.8% lower and average occupancy levels were 0.9% lower as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 3.7% reduction in rental income. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities increased approximately 2.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. This increase was primarily caused by higher rental income as a result of higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with higher average occupancy levels. For 2008, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.4% higher and average occupancy levels were 0.2% higher as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 2.7% increase in rental income. Our operating strategy is to maintain occupancy levels for our Same Store facilities at approximately 90% throughout the year. In order to achieve this strategy, we adjusted rental rates and promotional discounts offered to new tenants as well as the frequency of television advertising, increasing or decreasing each, depending on traffic patterns of new tenants renting space offset by existing tenants vacating. We experience seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Consequently, rates charged new tenants are typically higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Over the past two years, demand for self storage space has been negatively impacted by recessionary pressures, including increased unemployment, reduced housing sales, and reduced moving activity, in each of the markets in which we operate. As indicated in the table below, during the first three quarters of 2008, we generated relatively strong year over year revenue growth. Beginning in September 2008, we began to experience a notable decline in year over year move ins that continued through October 2008, which we believe reflected general economic conditions. To offset the decline in new rentals, we significantly reduced rental rates, increased promotional discounts to new incoming tenants, and increased marketing efforts. We believe these actions have stabilized move in volumes on a year over year basis; however, we have not yet been able to restore rental rates to the levels experienced in the prior year. We believe overall demand for self storage space in virtually all of our markets in which we operate has decreased due to current economic conditions, and coupled with an increase in the number of self storage operators over the past 10 years, will continue to foster a very difficult operating environment, at least in the near term. In addition, increased move out activity beginning in August 2008 exacerbated the downward pressure on occupancy levels created by reduced demand. In March 2009, the increase in move out activity began to subside to more normalized levels. 36 Same Store Year over Year Change Three Months Ended: Rental income Realized rent per occupied square foot Square foot occupancy March 31, 2008 3.4 % 3.0 % 0.3 % June 30, 2008 3.4 % 3.0 % 0.4 % September 30, 2008 2.5 % 1.9 % 0.6 % December 31, 2008 1.5 % 1.9 % (0.5 )% For entire year: 2008 2.7 % 2.4 % 0.2 % March 31, 2009 (1.2 )% (0.2 )% (1.0 )% June 30, 2009 (4.0 )% (2.9 )% (1.1 )% September 30, 2009 (5.2 )% (4.2 )% (1.0 )% December 31, 2009 (4.3 )% (3.8 )% (0.5 )% For entire year: 2009 (3.7 )% (2.8 )% (0.9 )% Based upon our evaluation of certain comparative key operating metrics as of December 31, 2009, we believe that revenue for the three months ending March 31, 2010 will be lower than the same period in 2009. Our operating strategy will be to continue to focus on maintaining occupancy levels by adjusting rental rates, promotional discounts and marketing activities. It is unclear to us how much the above mentioned factors will impact our revenues beyond the first quarter of 2010. From a geographic standpoint, we are experiencing the greatest year over year revenue declines in our Southeast markets, located in North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, as well as the West Coast, which includes Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and Los Angeles. See Analysis of Regional Trends table that follows. Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization) decreased by 1.8% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased by 0.7% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 was due to reduced utilities, repairs and maintenance, telephone reservation center, property insurance and other cost of management which were offset in part by increases in property taxes and other advertising and promotion expenses. The small increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 was due primarily to higher property tax and utilities expenses which were partially offset by lower property insurance expense. Property tax expense increased 2.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and 2.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These increases are primarily due to increases in assessments of property values and to a lesser degree increases in tax rates. We expect property tax expense growth of approximately 3.5% in 2010. Direct property payroll expense was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and increased by 1.2% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 reflects higher hours incurred due to adjustments in staffing levels, offset by lower incentive pay and stagnant growth in average wage rates. For 2010, we expect moderate growth trends in payroll. Media advertising for the Same Store Facilities was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and decreased 5.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Media advertising primarily includes the cost of advertising on television and will vary depending on a number of factors, including our occupancy levels and demand. Other advertising and promotion is comprised principally of yellow page and internet advertising, which increased 10.1% during 2009 as compared to 2008, and decreased 2.9% during 2008 as compared to 2007. Our future spending on yellow page, media, and internet advertising expenditures will be driven in part by demand for our self storage spaces, our current occupancy levels, and the relative efficacy of each type of advertising. Media advertising in particular can be volatile and increase or decrease significantly in the short term. 37 Utility expenses decreased 4.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased 3.8% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 was due primarily to higher electrical costs, which we believe in part was caused by rapid increase in energy prices, and in particular oil, used by local utility companies to produce electricity during 2008. Similarly, the decrease utility expense experienced in 2009, was due primarily to reduced year over year energy prices. It is difficult to estimate future utility cost levels because utility costs are dependent upon changes in demand driven by weather and temperature, as well as fuel prices, both of which are volatile and not predictable. Repairs and maintenance expenditures decreased 10.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 1.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Repairs and maintenance expenditures are dependent upon several factors, such as weather, the timing of periodic needs throughout our portfolio, inflation, and random events and accordingly are difficult to project from year to year. Due to severe weather, we expect snow removal expenses to be approximately $2 million higher in the three months ending March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. However, we expect overall repairs and maintenance expenditures to grow moderately in 2010. Telephone reservation center costs decreased 12.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and were flat in 2008 compared to 2007. The reduction in 2009 was primarily due to lower call volumes, resulting in less staffing hours, as well as a shift from our California to our Arizona call center, resulting in lower average compensation rates. We expect future increases in our telephone reservation center to be based primarily upon general inflation. Insurance expense decreased 14.3% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 15.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These declines reflect significant decreases in property insurance resulting primarily from the softer insurance markets as lack of hurricane activity and additional competition from insurance providers has benefited us. We expect insurance expense to be down slightly in 2010 as compared to 2009. 38 The following table summarizes selected quarterly financial data with respect to the Same Store Facilities: For the Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Entire Year (Amounts in thousands, except for per square foot amount) Total revenues: 2009 $ 347,185 $ 346,839 $ 352,121 $ 343,370 $ 1,389,515 2008 $ 349,991 $ 359,461 $ 368,976 $ 357,202 $ 1,435,630 2007 $ 338,454 $ 347,468 $ 359,627 $ 351,209 $ 1,396,758 Total cost of operations: 2009 $ 125,007 $ 116,426 $ 113,286 $ 99,894 $ 454,613 2008 $ 123,856 $ 120,526 $ 113,972 $ 104,442 $ 462,796 2007 $ 118,916 $ 118,985 $ 115,176 $ 106,491 $ 459,568 Property tax expense: 2009 $ 37,762 $ 36,659 $ 37,137 $ 28,218 $ 139,776 2008 $ 36,349 $ 35,156 $ 36,161 $ 28,159 $ 135,825 2007 $ 34,793 $ 33,682 $ 34,969 $ 28,967 $ 132,411 Media advertising expense: 2009 $ 8,158 $ 7,224 $ 3,430 $ 983 $ 19,795 2008 $ 6,947 $ 9,836 $ 2,148 $ 922 $ 19,853 2007 $ 5,287 $ 8,388 $ 4,409 $ 2,833 $ 20,917 Other advertising and promotion expense: 2009 $ 4,614 $ 5,967 $ 4,942 $ 4,556 $ 20,079 2008 $ 4,426 $ 5,027 $ 4,645 $ 4,137 $ 18,235 2007 $ 4,956 $ 5,342 $ 4,457 $ 4,023 $ 18,778 REVPAF: 2009 $ 11.29 $ 11.27 $ 11.41 $ 11.15 $ 11.28 2008 $ 11.43 $ 11.74 $ 12.03 $ 11.65 $ 11.71 2007 $ 11.05 $ 11.35 $ 11.74 $ 11.48 $ 11.40 Weighted average realized annual rent per occupied square foot (a): 2009 $ 12.84 $ 12.52 $ 12.73 $ 12.76 $ 12.71 2008 $ 12.87 $ 12.90 $ 13.29 $ 13.27 $ 13.08 2007 $ 12.49 $ 12.53 $ 13.04 $ 13.02 $ 12.77 Weighted average occupancy levels for the period (a): 2009 87.9 % 90.0 % 89.6 % 87.4 % 88.7 % 2008 88.8 % 91.0 % 90.5 % 87.8 % 89.5 % 2007 88.5 % 90.6 % 90.0 % 88.2 % 89.3 % 39 Analysis of Regional Trends The following table sets forth regional trends in our Same Store Facilities: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data) Same Store Facilities Operating Trends by Region Revenues: Southern California (176 facilities) $ 203,794 $ 212,556 (4.1 )% $ 212,556 $ 205,142 3.6 % Northern California (167 facilities) 149,043 154,064 (3.3 )% 154,064 146,872 4.9 % Texas (231 facilities) 139,614 141,155 (1.1 )% 141,155 135,513 4.2 % Florida (182 facilities) 134,104 141,601 (5.3 )% 141,601 144,071 (1.7 )% Illinois (119 facilities) 87,837 90,283 (2.7 )% 90,283 86,513 4.4 % Washington (88 facilities) 71,292 75,036 (5.0 )% 75,036 73,284 2.4 % Georgia (86 facilities) 48,466 51,381 (5.7 )% 51,381 51,008 0.7 % All other states (850 facilities) 555,365 569,554 (2.5 )% 569,554 554,355 2.7 % Total revenues 1,389,515 1,435,630 (3.2 )% 1,435,630 1,396,758 2.8 % Cost of operations: Southern California 45,304 44,938 0.8 % 44,938 45,328 (0.9 )% Northern California 39,400 40,047 (1.6 )% 40,047 40,786 (1.8 )% Texas 53,657 54,827 (2.1 )% 54,827 53,968 1.6 % Florida 46,110 48,454 (4.8 )% 48,454 48,167 0.6 % Illinois 39,185 37,774 3.7 % 37,774 38,410 (1.7 )% Washington 17,749 17,743 0.0 % 17,743 17,371 2.1 % Georgia 16,607 17,027 (2.5 )% 17,027 16,593 2.6 % All other states 196,601 201,986 (2.7 )% 201,986 198,945 1.5 % Total cost of operations 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Net operating income (a): Southern California 158,490 167,618 (5.4 )% 167,618 159,814 4.9 % Northern California 109,643 114,017 (3.8 )% 114,017 106,086 7.5 % Texas 85,957 86,328 (0.4 )% 86,328 81,545 5.9 % Florida 87,994 93,147 (5.5 )% 93,147 95,904 (2.9 )% Illinois 48,652 52,509 (7.3 )% 52,509 48,103 9.2 % Washington 53,543 57,293 (6.5 )% 57,293 55,913 2.5 % Georgia 31,859 34,354 (7.3 )% 34,354 34,415 (0.2 )% All other states 358,764 367,568 (2.4 )% 367,568 355,410 3.4 % Total net operating income $ 934,902 $ 972,834 (3.9 )% $ 972,834 $ 937,190 3.8 % Weighted average occupancy: Southern California 89.9 % 90.3 % (0.4 )% 90.3 % 90.0 % 0.3 % Northern California 88.9 % 89.8 % (1.0 )% 89.8 % 89.0 % 0.9 % Texas 88.9 % 90.4 % (1.7 )% 90.4 % 90.2 % 0.2 % Florida 88.6 % 89.0 % (0.4 )% 89.0 % 88.4 % 0.7 % Illinois 88.0 % 88.8 % (0.9 )% 88.8 % 88.3 % 0.6 % Washington 88.9 % 89.7 % (0.9 )% 89.7 % 90.6 % (1.0 )% Georgia 87.4 % 88.8 % (1.6 )% 88.8 % 90.0 % (1.3 )% All other states 88.6 % 89.3 % (0.8 )% 89.3 % 89.1 % 0.2 % Total weighted average occupancy 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % 40 Same Store Facilities Operating Trends by Region (Continued) Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (a): Southern California $ 18.78 $ 19.52 (3.8 )% $ 19.52 $ 18.91 3.2 % Northern California 16.77 17.16 (2.3 )% 17.16 16.49 4.1 % Texas 9.95 9.97 (0.2 )% 9.97 9.62 3.6 % Florida 12.12 12.87 (5.8 )% 12.87 13.24 (2.8 )% Illinois 12.93 13.24 (2.3 )% 13.24 12.75 3.8 % Washington 13.67 14.32 (4.5 )% 14.32 14.02 2.1 % Georgia 9.64 10.16 (5.1 )% 10.16 9.97 1.9 % All other states 11.67 11.95 (2.3 )% 11.95 11.69 2.2 % Total realized rent per square foot $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % REVPAF (a): Southern California $ 16.88 $ 17.62 (4.2 )% $ 17.62 $ 17.03 3.5 % Northern California 14.91 15.41 (3.2 )% 15.41 14.68 5.0 % Texas 8.85 9.01 (1.8 )% 9.01 8.67 3.9 % Florida 10.74 11.46 (6.3 )% 11.46 11.71 (2.1 )% Illinois 11.38 11.76 (3.2 )% 11.76 11.26 4.4 % Washington 12.15 12.84 (5.4 )% 12.84 12.70 1.1 % Georgia 8.43 9.03 (6.6 )% 9.03 8.97 0.7 % All other states 10.35 10.67 (3.0 )% 10.67 10.42 2.4 % Total REVPAF $ 11.28 $ 11.71 (3.7 )% $ 11.71 $ 11.40 2.7 % (a) See Same Store Facilities table above for further information regarding these measures, which represent or are derived from non GAAP measures. We believe that our geographic diversification and scale provide some insulation from localized economic effects and add to the stability of our cash flows. It is difficult to predict localized trends in short term self storage demand and operating results. We believe that each market has been negatively impacted to some degree by general economic trends and may continue to experience negative operating trends until such time that general economic trends improve. 41 Other Facilities In addition to the Same Store facilities, at December 31, 2009, we had an additional 92 self storage facilities. These facilities include recently acquired facilities, recently developed facilities and facilities that were recently expanded by adding additional storage units. In general, these facilities are not stabilized with respect to occupancies or rental rates. As a result of the fill up process and timing of when the facilities were put into place, year over year changes can be significant. Rental income, cost of operations, depreciation, net operating income, weighted average square foot occupancies and realized rents per square foot in the table above represent the operating results following the date each particular facility began to be included in our consolidated operating results, and in the case of acquired facilities, do not include any operating results prior to our acquisition of these facilities. In 2009, we completed one newly developed facility with 64,000 net rentable square feet at a total cost of $11.9 million and four expansion projects to existing real estate facilities (76,000 net rentable square feet) for an aggregate cost of $19.1 million, and did not acquire any new properties. Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process of filling up to stabilized occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able to leverage off of our operating strategies and improve the occupancy levels of the facilities or, with respect to the newly developed facilities, we have been able to accelerate the fill up pace. We expect that the Other Facilities will continue to provide earnings growth during 2010, though at a lower level of growth than that experienced in 2009 and 2008, as these facilities reach stabilization. However, the Other Facilities are subject to the same occupancy and rate pressures that our Same Store facilities are facing, and accordingly the pace at which these facilities reach stabilization, and the ultimate level of cash flows to be reached upon stabilization, may be negatively impacted by the current economic trends. Because of reduced self storage demand, and our belief that our capital could be put to use in a more advantageous manner, our development activities throughout 2009 have been nominal, and we have a nominal pipeline of new development at December 31, 2009. It is unclear when we might change our strategy with respect to development activities. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the storage industry. We believe that there may be more opportunities for the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether the banks and other lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which would force a sale of the properties of these distressed owners, rather than extending existing loans or waiving covenant violations. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders desire to extend these loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. 42 Equity in earnings of real estate entities At December 31, 2009, we have equity investments in PSB, Shurgard Europe and five affiliated limited partnerships. Due to our limited ownership interest and limited control of these entities, we do not consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and account for such investments using the equity method. Equity in earnings of real estate entities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, consists of our pro rata share of the net income of these Unconsolidated Entities based upon our ownership interest for the period. The following table sets forth the significant components of equity in earnings of real estate entities. Amounts with respect to PSB, Shurgard Europe, and Other Investments are included in our Commercial segment, Europe Self Storage segment, and other items not allocated to segments, respectively, as described in Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Historical summary: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands) Net operating income (1): PSB $ 81,525 $ 89,067 $ (7,542 ) $ 89,067 $ 82,279 $ 6,788 Shurgard Europe 46,374 38,785 7,589 38,785 38,785 Other Investments 2,713 4,626 (1,913 ) 4,626 4,878 (252 ) 130,612 132,478 (1,866 ) 132,478 87,157 45,321 Depreciation: PSB (37,167 ) (45,422 ) 8,255 (45,422 ) (43,316 ) (2,106 ) Shurgard Europe (24,498 ) (27,578 ) 3,080 (27,578 ) (27,578 ) Other Investments (806 ) (1,918 ) 1,112 (1,918 ) (1,991 ) 73 (62,471 ) (74,918 ) 12,447 (74,918 ) (45,307 ) (29,611 ) Other:(2): PSB (3) (9,250 ) (29,320 ) 20,070 (29,320 ) (28,461 ) (859 ) Shurgard Europe (5,607 ) (7,073 ) 1,466 (7,073 ) (7,073 ) Other Investments (40 ) (776 ) 736 (776 ) (651 ) (125 ) (14,897 ) (37,169 ) 22,272 (37,169 ) (29,112 ) (8,057 ) Total equity in earnings of real estate entities: PSB 35,108 14,325 20,783 14,325 10,502 3,823 Shurgard Europe 16,269 4,134 12,135 4,134 4,134 Other Investments 1,867 1,932 (65 ) 1,932 2,236 (304 ) $ 53,244 $ 20,391 $ 32,853 $ 20,391 $ 12,738 $ 7,653 (1) These amounts represent our pro rata share of the net operating income of the Unconsolidated Entities. See also net operating income above for a discussion of this non GAAP measure. (2) Other reflects our share of general and administrative expense, interest expense, interest income, gains on sale of real estate assets, and other non property; non depreciation related operating results of these entities. (3) Includes our pro rata share of benefit totaling $16.3 million and $1.9 million from PSBs preferred stock and preferred unit repurchases for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Investment in PSB: At December 31, we have a 41% common equity interest in PSB (46% as of December 31, 2008), comprised of our ownership of 5,801,606 shares of PSBs common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in PSBs underlying operating partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one for one basis into PSB common stock. Our ownership interest was reduced during 2009 as PSB sold 3,833,333 shares of its common stock, of which we purchased 383,333 shares or 10% of the shares issued. 43 At December 31 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states. PSB also manages commercial space owned by the Company and affiliated entities at December 31, 2009 pursuant to property management agreements. Equity in earnings from PSB increased to $35,108,000 in 2009 as compared to $14,325,000 in 2008. This increase was primarily the result of recognizing our pro rata share, $16.3 million, of the benefit that PSB recognized during 2009 as a result of PSBs preferred stock and preferred partnership unit repurchases combined with our $8.3 million pro rata share of reduced depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by our $7.5 million pro rata share of reduced property net operating income. The reduction in property net operating income is primarily the result of reduced property revenues at PSBs facilities due to a 3.2% decline in the weighted average occupancy level for 2009 as compared to 2008. Our future equity income from PSB will be dependent entirely upon PSBs operating results. Our investment in PSB provides us with some diversification into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB. PSBs filings and selected financial information can be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information on PSB. Investment in Shurgard Europe: As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, due to our March 31, 2008 disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe, beginning for periods after March 31, 2008 we no longer consolidate the revenues and expenses of Shurgard Europe on our consolidated statements of income, and our pro rata share of the operating results of Shurgard Europe is included in equity in earnings of real estate entities. Selected financial data for Shurgard Europe for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is included in Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. We originally acquired our 100% interest in Shurgard Europe during our merger with Shurgard, which occurred in August 2006. Our primary objective for merging with Shurgard was to acquire Shurgards U.S. domestic assets which accounted for approximately 487 facilities in the U.S. as compared to 160 facilities in Europe at the time of the Shurgard Merger. Subsequent to the Shurgard Merger, management of Public Storage determined that it was in our best interests to reduce our investment in Shurgard Europe. There were many reasons for that determination, most relating to the fact that continued growth of Shurgard Europe would require a significant capital commitment. Movement of capital from Public Storage (in the U.S.) to various European countries would have exposed Public Storage to currency fluctuation risks and to potential tax burdens when Public Storage wished to repatriate its capital investment. Accordingly, in March 2008, we sold 51% of our ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, which helped to limit our capital requirements to continue to grow Shurgard Europe and to limit our exposure to other risks of owning operations in foreign countries. We do not intend to sell any of our remaining interest in Shurgard Europe. In the future, we expect Shurgard Europe to function as a stand alone entity and to fund its capital requirements primarily with its retained operating cash flow, bank borrowings and, to the extent available, public or private equity. This transaction has resulted in the operations of Shurgard Europe having a less significant impact on our operating results, as we have a 49% interest and a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe upon which we receive interest income, rather than the 100% equity interest in Shurgard Europe we held prior to the transaction. Our future operating results will also be impacted by the ultimate returns realized on the reinvestment of the cash proceeds received in connection with this transaction, including the proceeds from the collection of the loan receivable and the timing thereof. At December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europes operations comprise 187 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet. The portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest. Our equity in earnings from Shurgard Europe is comprised of our 49% equity share in the net income of Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of the interest earned with respect to the note receivable from Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, which are reclassified in consolidation from interest income to equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe. The amount of interest reclassified was approximately $23.9 million in 2009, $17.8 million in 2008 and none in 2007. 44 Equity in earnings from our investment in Shurgard Europe for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $16,269,000 compared to $4,134,000 for the same period in 2008, representing an increase of $12,135,000. This increase includes i) a reduction in our pro rata share of Shurgard Europes depreciation expense, primarily due to declines in tenant intangible amortization, ii) our pro rata share of a reduction in Shurgard Europes third party interest expense (joint ventures in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest recently refinanced their outstanding debt at substantially lower interest rates), (iii) the timing of our disposition of the 51% interest in Shurgard Europe as equity in earnings for 2008 only includes amounts for the period of April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 while the 2009 includes amounts for the entire year, offset by iv) our pro rata share of Shurgard Europes same store properties decline in net operating income, on a constant exchange rate basis, and (v) the effect of a change in the average exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar to 1.393 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 1.470 for the same period in 2008. We evaluate the performance metrics of Shurgard Europes Same Store Facilities in order to evaluate the performance of our investment in Shurgard Europe, because the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent the primary driver of our pro rata share of earnings of Shurgard Europe. The Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent those 94 facilities that are stabilized and owned since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table reflects the operating results of these 94 facilities. Selected Operating Data for the 94 facilities operated by Shurgard Europe on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007 (Europe Same Store Facilities): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change (Dollar amounts in thousands, except weighted average data, utilizing constant exchange rates) (a) (b) Revenues: Rental income $ 115,785 $ 120,030 (3.5 )% $ 120,030 $ 118,578 1.2 % Late charges and administrative fees collected 1,892 2,018 (6.2 )% 2,018 1,198 68.4 % Total revenues 117,677 122,048 (3.6 )% 122,048 119,776 1.9 % Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization expense): Property taxes 5,661 5,659 0.0 % 5,659 5,485 3.2 % Direct property payroll 13,767 13,852 (0.6 )% 13,852 14,033 (1.3 )% Advertising and promotion 4,662 3,579 30.3 % 3,579 3,772 (5.1 )% Utilities 2,849 2,846 0.1 % 2,846 2,826 0.7 % Repairs and maintenance 3,157 3,353 (5.8 )% 3,353 3,207 4.6 % Property insurance 711 760 (6.4 )% 760 1,131 (32.8 )% Other costs of management 16,902 16,490 2.5 % 16,490 17,636 (6.5 )% Total cost of operations 47,709 46,539 2.5 % 46,539 48,090 (3.2 )% Net operating income (c) $ 69,968 $ 75,509 (7.3 )% $ 75,509 $ 71,686 5.3 % Gross margin 59.5 % 61.9 % (3.9 )% 61.9 % 59.9 % 3.3 % Weighted average for the period: Square foot occupancy (d) 86.1 % 86.9 % (0.9 )% 86.9 % 89.7 % (3.1 )% Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (e)(f) $ 26.06 $ 26.77 (2.7 )% $ 26.77 $ 25.62 4.5 % REVPAF (f)(g) $ 22.44 $ 23.26 (3.5 )% $ 23.26 $ 22.98 1.2 % Weighted average at December 31: Square foot occupancy 85.7 % 84.7 % 1.2 % 84.7 % 88.5 % (4.3 )% In place annual rent per occupied square foot (h) $ 30.03 $ 30.32 (1.0 )% $ 30.32 $ 29.93 1.3 % Total net rentable square feet (in thousands) 5,160 5,160 5,160 5,160 Average Euro to the U.S. Dollar: (a) Constant exchange rates used herein 1.393 1.393 1.393 1.393 Actual historical exchange rates 1.393 1.470 (5.2 )% 1.470 1.370 7.3 % 45 (a) In order to isolate changes in the underlying operations from the impact of exchange rates, the amounts in this table are presented on a constant exchange rate basis. The amounts for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been restated using the actual exchange rate for 2009. The exchange rate for the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar averaged 1.393 during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 1.470 and 1.370 for the same periods in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (b) Only the amounts for periods before March 31, 2008 are included in our consolidated financial statements. We include our pro rata share of these operating results for periods after March 31, 2008 in Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities. The amounts incorporated in our financial statements, either consolidated or equity method amounts, are based upon the actual weighted average exchange rates for each period. (c) We present net operating income NOI of the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities, which is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization is a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, segment performance, and comparing period to period and market to market property operating results. In addition, the investment community utilizes NOI in determining real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization in evaluating our operating results. (d) Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period. (e) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. (f) Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (g) Realized annual rent per available foot or REVPAF is computed by dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the total available net rentable square feet for the period. (h) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Shurgard Europes operations have been impacted by the same trends in self storage demand that our domestic facilities are facing. However, trends in Europe improved somewhat in the last half of 2009, with year over year revenue declines of 1.9% in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 3.2% in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and 4.7% in the first half of 2009. Despite the recent improved trends and reduced year over year declines in revenues and net operating income, we expect continued year over year declines in revenues during at least the first quarter of 2010. Shurgard Europe, similar to our Domestic Self Storage segment, has a nominal development pipeline. Accordingly, at least in the short term, we do not expect any significant impact to our earnings from Shurgard Europes development activities. In Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, we disclose Shurgard Europes consolidated operating results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Shurgard Europes condensed consolidated operating results include additional facilities that are not Europe Same Store Facilities, and are based upon historical exchange rates rather than constant exchange rates for each of the respective periods. Other Investments: The Other Investments at December 31, 2009 are comprised primarily of our equity in earnings from various limited partnerships that collectively own 19 self storage facilities. Amounts included in the tables above also include our equity in earnings with respect to three facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities, until we acquired the remaining interest we did not own in these entities during 2008, and commenced consolidating these facilities. Our future earnings with respect to the Other Investments will be dependent upon the operating results of the facilities that these entities own. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for the operating results of these 19 facilities under the Other Investments. 46 Ancillary Operations Ancillary revenues and expenses include amounts associated with (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self storage facilities in the U.S., (ii) merchandise sales in the U.S., (iii) commercial property operations, (iv) merchandise sales and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe, and (v) management of facilities for third parties and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities. Commercial property operations are included in our Commercial segment, and the merchandise and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe are included in our Europe Self Storage segment. All other ancillary revenues and costs of operations are not allocated to any segment. See Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our segments and for a reconciliation of these ancillary revenues and cost of operations to our net income. During 2009, we decided to discontinue the operations of our truck rental and containerized businesses. Accordingly, the revenues and expenses of these operations are included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The following table sets forth our ancillary operations as presented on our consolidated statements of income. Year Ended December 31 Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands) Ancillary Revenues: Tenant reinsurance premiums $ 62,644 $ 57,280 $ 5,364 $ 57,280 $ 50,861 $ 6,419 Commercial 14,982 15,326 (344 ) 15,326 15,101 225 Merchandise and other 29,971 30,902 (931 ) 30,902 32,029 (1,127 ) Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant insurance 4,913 (4,913 ) 4,913 17,490 (12,577 ) Total revenues 107,597 108,421 (824 ) 108,421 115,481 (7,060 ) Ancillary Cost of operations: Tenant reinsurance 9,789 6,734 3,055 6,734 15,879 (9,145 ) Commercial 5,759 6,292 (533 ) 6,292 5,722 570 Merchandise and other 20,463 22,093 (1,630 ) 22,093 25,174 (3,081 ) Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant insurance 1,409 (1,409 ) 1,409 5,186 (3,777 ) Total cost of operations 36,011 36,528 (517 ) 36,528 51,961 (15,433 ) Depreciation commercial operations: 2,958 2,900 58 2,900 2,570 330 Ancillary net income: Tenant reinsurance 52,855 50,546 2,309 50,546 34,982 15,564 Commercial 6,265 6,134 131 6,134 6,809 (675 ) Merchandise and other 9,508 8,809 699 8,809 6,855 1,954 Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant reinsurance 3,504 (3,504 ) 3,504 12,304 (8,800 ) Total ancillary net income $ 68,628 $ 68,993 $ (365 ) $ 68,993 $ 60,950 $ 8,043 Tenant reinsurance operations: We reinsure policies offered through a non affiliated insurance company against losses to goods stored by tenants, primarily in our domestic self storage facilities. The revenues that we record are based upon premiums that we reinsure. Cost of operations primarily includes claims paid that are not covered by our outside third party insurers, as well as claims adjustment expenses. Cost of operations includes reductions of $2.0 million and $5.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing adjustments to accounting estimates that are not expected to recur. 47 The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues over the past year was attributable to higher rates combined with an increase in the percentage of our existing tenants retaining such policies. Approximately 58% and 53% of our tenants had such policies at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that the level of tenant reinsurance revenues in 2010 may not increase to the same degree as was experienced in 2009 as customer penetration reaches the percentage of tenants that could be expected to retain such policies. The future level of tenant reinsurance revenues is largely dependent upon the number of new tenants electing to purchase policies, the level of premiums charged for such insurance, and the number of tenants that continue participating in the insurance program. Future cost of operations will be dependent primarily upon the level of losses incurred, including the level of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, that occur and affect our properties thereby increasing tenant insurance claims. Commercial operations: We also operate commercial facilities, primarily small storefronts and office space located on or near our existing self storage facilities that are rented to third parties. We do not expect any significant changes in revenues or profitability from our commercial operations. Merchandise sales and other: We sell locks, boxes, and packing supplies at the self storage facilities that we operate. The primary factor impacting the level of merchandise sales is the level of customer traffic at our self storage facilities, including the level of move ins. In addition, to a much lesser extent, we also manage self storage facilities within our existing management infrastructure, for third party owners as well as for the Unconsolidated Entities. Other Income and Expense Items Interest and other income: Interest and other income was $29,813,000 in 2009, $36,155,000 in 2008, and $11,417,000 in 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 is principally due to lower interest income on our cash reserve balances, offset by higher interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe (described below). Interest earned on our cash balances totaled $5.0 million in 2009 as compared to $17.7 million in 2008. This reduction was due primarily to significantly lower interest rates in 2009 as compared to 2008. We have $763.8 million in cash on hand at December 31, 2009 invested primarily in money market funds. Future interest income will depend upon the level of interest rates and the timing of when the cash on hand is ultimately invested; however, based upon current interest rates on our outstanding money market fund investments of approximately 0.2%, earned interest is expected to be minimal. We have a loan receivable, denominated in Euros, from Shurgard Europe totaling 391.9 million ($561.7 million) as of December 31, 2009. Effective October 31, 2009, we extended the maturity date to March 31, 2013, and the rate of interest increased from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum (effective November 1, 2009). In addition, we receive trademark license fees from Shurgard Europe. We recorded interest income with respect to this loan, representing 51% of the amount earned (the remaining 49% is recorded as additional equity in earnings) combined with 51% of the trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, aggregating $24.8 million and $18.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. No interest income in connection with the loan or trademark fees was recorded prior to March 31, 2008, as any such income received was fully eliminated in consolidation until March 31, 2008. All other variances in interest income from our note receivable are attributable principally to changes in average exchange rates as well as the change in interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% effective November 1, 2009. Future interest income recorded in connection with this loan will be dependent upon the average outstanding balance as well as the exchange rate of the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar. All such interest has been paid currently when due and we expect the interest to continue to be paid when due with Shurgard Europes operating cash flow. 48 Interest and other income increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 principally as a result of (i) higher average cash balances invested in interest bearing accounts and (ii) interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe. Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation and amortization expense was $340,233,000, $411,981,000 and $619,598,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decreases in depreciation and amortization expense in 2009 as compared to 2008, and in 2008 as compared to 2007, are due principally to declines in amortization of tenant intangible assets that were acquired in connection with the 2006 Shurgard Merger. Amortization expense with respect to tenant intangible assets was $5,530,000 in 2009, $51,158,000 in 2008 and $247,844,000 in 2007. We expect minimal amortization expense for our existing intangibles during 2010, and future intangible amortization will be dependent upon our future level of acquisition of facilities with existing tenants in place. Effective March 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization ceased on the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe, which was deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. Included in our depreciation and amortization related to Shurgard Europes facilities was $11,192,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and $52,460,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007. General and administrative expense: General and administrative expense was $35,735,000, $62,809,000, and $59,749,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. General and administrative expense principally consists of state income taxes, investor relations expenses, and corporate and executive salaries. In addition, general and administrative expenses includes expenses that vary depending on our activity levels in certain areas, such as overhead associated with the acquisition and development of real estate facilities, certain expenses related to capital raising and merger and acquisition activities, litigation expenditures, employee severance, share based compensation, and incentive compensation. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes $2,144,000 in ongoing general and administrative expense for Shurgard Europe incurred prior to March 31, 2008 and $27,900,000 in additional incentive compensation incurred related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes a) $10,691,000 related to Shurgard Europes ongoing operations, b) $9,600,000 in costs incurred by Shurgard Europe associated with a proposed terminated offering of shares in Shurgard Europe, c) $5,300,000 incurred in connection with the integration of Shurgard and Public Storage, and d) $2,000,000 in costs associated with reorganizing as a Maryland REIT. Following March 31, 2008, we record no further general and administrative expense incurred by Shurgard Europes ongoing operations. We expect ongoing general and administrative expense to approximate $8 million to $10 million per quarter. Interest expense: Interest expense was $29,916,000, $43,944,000 and $63,671,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decreases in interest expense in 2009 and 2008 are due primarily to the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective March 31, 2008, which incurred $6,892,000 and $22,242,000 in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively. Interest expense was also reduced approximately $6 million in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to our early retirement in February 2009 of $110.2 million face amount of senior unsecured debt. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for a schedule of our notes payable balances, principal repayment requirements, and average interest rates. Capitalized interest expense totaled $718,000, $1,998,000 and $4,746,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in connection with our development activities. Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss): Our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe is denominated in Euros and we have not entered into any hedged agreements to mitigate the impact of currency exchange fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro. As a result, the amount of U.S. Dollars we will receive on repayment will depend upon the currency exchange rates at that time. In each period where we expect repatriation of these funds within two years from period end, we record the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan balance from the beginning to the end of the period as a foreign currency gain or loss. We recorded a foreign exchange gain of $9,662,000, a loss of $25,362,000, and a gain of $58,444,000 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, representing the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan due to changes in exchange rates from the beginning to the end of each respective period. The U.S. Dollar exchange rate relative to the Euro was approximately 1.433, 1.409, and 1.472 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 49 Future foreign exchange gains or losses will be dependent primarily upon the movement of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar, the amount owed from Shurgard Europe and our continued expectation with respect to repaying the loan. Discontinued Operations: During 2009, we discontinued operations in our truck rental and containerized storage businesses. In addition, we disposed of one self storage facility and expect to dispose of one other in connection with condemnation proceedings. We reclassified all of the historical revenues and expenses of these operations from revenues and expenses, into discontinued operations. Included in discontinued operations in 2009 are $3.5 million in truck disposal expenses, an $8.2 million impairment charge on intangible assets incurred in connection with an eminent domain proceeding and $6.0 million of gains on the disposition of the self storage facilities. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have $763.8 million of cash on hand at December 31, 2009, and believe that these funds, together with our internally generated net cash provided by our operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to meet our operating expenses, debt service requirements, capital improvements and distributions requirements to our shareholders for the foreseeable future. Operating as a REIT, our ability to retain cash flow for reinvestment is restricted. In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow must be distributed to our shareholders (see Requirement to Pay Distributions below). However, despite the significant distribution requirements, we have been able to retain a significant amount of our operating cash flow. The following table summarizes our ability to fund capital improvements to maintain our facilities, distributions to the noncontrolling interests, capital improvements to maintain our facilities, and distributions to our shareholders through the use of cash provided by operating activities. The remaining cash flow generated is available to make both scheduled and optional principal payments on debt and for reinvestment. For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Amount in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities (a) $ 1,112,857 $ 1,076,971 $ 1,047,652 Capital improvements to maintain our facilities (62,352 ) (76,311 ) (69,102 ) Remaining operating cash flow available for distributions to equity holders 1,050,505 1,000,660 978,550 Distributions paid to redeemable noncontrolling interests (1,290 ) (1,335 ) (1,092 ) Distribution paid to permanent noncontrolling equity interests (26,977 ) (37,993 ) (40,567 ) Cash from operations allocable to Public Storage shareholders 1,022,238 961,332 936,891 Distributions paid to Public Storage shareholders: Preferred shareholders (232,431 ) (239,721 ) (236,757 ) Equity Shares, Series A shareholders (20,524 ) (21,199 ) (21,424 ) Common shareholders ($2.20 per share for 2009, $2.20 per share regular dividend and $0.60 special dividend in 2008 and $2.00 per share for 2007) (370,404 ) (470,823 ) (338,689 ) Cash from operations available for principal payments on debt and reinvestment (b) $ 398,879 $ 229,589 $ 340,021 50 (a) Represents net cash provided by operating activities for each respective year as presented in our December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. (b) We present cash from operations for principal payments on debt and reinvestment because we believe it is an important measure to evaluate our ongoing liquidity. This measure is not a substitute for cash flows from operations or net cash flows in evaluating our liquidity, ability to repay our debt, or to meet our distribution requirements. Our financial profile is characterized by a low level of debt to total capitalization and a conservative dividend payout ratio with respect to the common shares. We expect to fund our long term growth strategies and debt obligations with (i) cash on hand at December 31, 2009, (ii) internally generated retained cash flows, (iii) depending upon current market conditions, proceeds from the issuance of equity securities, and (iv) in the case of acquisitions of facilities, the assumption of existing debt. In general, our strategy is to continue to finance our growth with permanent capital, either retained operating cash flow or capital raised through the issuance of common or preferred equity to the extent that market conditions are favorable. Historically, we have funded substantially all of our acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for the following reasons: (i) under the REIT structure, a significant amount of operating cash flow needs to be distributed to our shareholders, making it difficult to repay debt with operating cash flow alone, (ii) our perpetual preferred shares have no sinking fund requirement or maturity date and do not require redemption, all of which eliminate future refinancing risks, (iii) after the end of a non call period, we have the option to redeem the preferred shares at any time, which enables us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares with new preferred shares at lower rates if appropriate, (iv) preferred shares do not contain covenants, thus allowing us to maintain significant financial flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements. Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are Baa1 by Moodys and BBB by Standard & Poors. Access to Additional Capital: In addition to cash on hand, we also have a revolving line of credit for borrowings up to $300 million. The line of credit expires in March 2012 and there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit at February 26, 2010. We seldom borrow on the line of credit and generally view borrowings on the line as a means to bridge capital needs until we are able to refinance them with permanent capital. Our ability to raise additional capital by issuing our common or preferred securities may not be a viable option at least in the near term due to unfavorable capital market conditions. We are not dependent, however, on raising capital to fund our operations or meet our obligations. Significant requirements on our liquidity and capital resources include: (i) funds to redeem shares of Equity Shares, Series A on April 15, 2010, (ii) debt service requirements, (iii) capital improvements to maintain our facilities, (iv) distribution requirements to our shareholders to maintain our REIT status, (v) acquisition and development commitments and (vi) commitments to provide funding to Shurgard Europe for certain investing and financing activities. Redemption of Equity Shares, Series A: On April 15, 2010, we will be redeeming all of our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash redemption price of $24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2 million. Since the initial issuance of these securities, the annual distribution paid has been $2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield of 10%. We plan on using cash on hand to fund the aggregate redemption amount. 51 Debt Service Requirements: At December 31, 2009, outstanding debt totaled approximately $518.9 million. Approximate principal maturities are as follows (amounts in thousands): Unsecured debt Secured debt Total 2010 $ 1,673 $ 11,037 $ 12,710 2011 103,533 27,819 131,352 2012 55,575 55,575 2013 186,460 64,961 251,421 2014 25,400 25,400 Thereafter 42,431 42,431 $ 291,666 $ 227,223 $ 518,889 Our current intention is to repay the debt at maturity and not seek to refinance debt maturities with additional debt. Alternatively, we may prepay debt and finance such prepayments with cash on hand or proceeds from the issuance of preferred or common securities. On February 12, 2009, we acquired approximately $110 million face amount of our existing senior unsecured debt pursuant to a tender offer. The amount paid in the tender offer, approximately $110 million, was substantially less than what would have been paid if we were to repay this debt early subject to the prepayment premiums under the related debt agreements. Our portfolio of real estate facilities is substantially unencumbered. At December 31, 2009, we have 1,902 self storage facilities with an aggregate net book value of approximately $7.0 billion that are unencumbered. Capital Improvement Requirements: During 2010, we expect to incur approximately $80 million for capital improvements. Capital improvements include major repairs or replacements to our facilities, which keep the facilities in good operating condition and maintain their visual appeal to the customer. Capital improvements do not include costs relating to the development or expansion of facilities that add additional net rentable square footage to our portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred capital improvements of approximately $62.4 million. Requirement to Pay Distributions: We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, but no assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain limited exceptions, on the REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed. We believe we have satisfied the REIT distribution requirement since 1981. Although we have not finalized our 2009 taxable income, we believe that the aggregate distributions paid in 2009 to our shareholders enable us to continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements. Aggregate distributions paid during 2009 totaled $624.7 million, consisting of the following (amounts in thousands: Distributions paid in 2009 Cumulative preferred shareholders $ 232,431 Equity Shares, Series A shareholders 20,524 Common shareholders and restricted share unitholders 371,710 Total REIT qualifying distributions $ 624,665 For 2010, we estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our (i) cumulative preferred shares outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $232.4 million, assuming no additional preferred share issuances or redemptions during 2010, and (ii) Equity Shares, Series A shares to be approximately $5.1 million, representing distributions through March 31, 2010. We will be redeeming these securities on April 15, 2010 and no further distributions will be paid for the period subsequent to March 31, 2010. 52 On February 26, 2010, our Board of Trustees declared a regular common dividend of $0.65 per common share, representing an increase of $0.10 per share (an 18% increase) from the previous quarters distribution. Our consistent, long term dividend policy has been to only distribute our taxable income. Taxable income attributable to our common shareholders has increased due to recent purchases of preferred securities and equity stock, as well as reduced property depreciation, offset in part, by declines in operating income. Future changes in our dividend will be impacted by these same factors, as well as property acquisitions. Future distributions with respect to the common shares will continue to be determined based upon our REIT distribution requirements after taking into consideration distributions to the preferred shareholders and will be funded with operating cash flow. We are also obligated to pay distributions to non controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries. During 2009, we paid distributions totaling $9.5 million with respect to preferred partnership units. We expect our annual distribution requirement based upon preferred partnership units outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $7.3 million on a go forward basis. In addition, we are required to pay distributions to other non controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries based upon the operating cash flows of the respective subsidiary less any required reserves for capital expenditures or debt repayment. Such non controlling interests received a total of $18,812,000 in 2009, $17,716,000 in 2008 and $20,047,000 in 2007, which represents our expectations with respect to future distribution levels. Acquisition and Development of Facilities: During 2010, we will continue to seek to acquire self storage facilities from third parties; however, it is difficult to estimate the amount of third party acquisitions we will undertake. We have a minimal development pipeline at December 31, 2009 and have no current plan to expand our development activities. We plan on financing these activities with available cash on hand, the assumption of existing debt, borrowings on our line of credit, or the net proceeds from the issuance of common or preferred securities. European Activities: We have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe and our institutional partner owns the remaining 51% interest. As of December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe owed us 391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31, 2009) pursuant to a loan agreement. Effective, October 31, 2009, the terms of the loan were modified to increase the interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum and the maturity date was extended from March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2013. All other material terms and covenants remain the same. The loan is unsecured and can be prepaid at anytime without penalty. Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in two joint ventures (First Shurgard and Second Shurgard). We are committed to provide additional financing to Shurgard Europe to facilitate the acquisition of its partners 80% interest in each of these two joint ventures. If Shurgard Europe acquires its partners 80% interest in either First Shurgard and Second Shurgard and is unable to obtain third party financing to repay the existing loans of the joint ventures, we have agreed to provide additional loans to Shurgard Europe, under the same terms as the our 391.9 million loan, for up to 185 million ($265.2 million as of December 31, 2009). This commitment expires on March 31, 2010 and was originally for 305 million, but was reduced as the result of refinancing one of the joint venture loans. Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and the acquisition of these interests is contingent on a number of items, including whether we assent to the acquisition. The two joint ventures collectively had approximately 224 million ($321 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009, which is non recourse to Shurgard Europe. One of the joint venture loans, totaling 107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan, totaling 117 million ($168 million), is due in July 2010. Both joint venture loans are secured by the joint ventures respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe or any third party. 53 We also committed to fund up to $88.2 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain investing activities. Our remaining obligation under this commitment totaled $66.4 million at December 31, 2009. Redemption of Preferred Securities: As of December 31, 2009, several series of our preferred securities were redeemable at our option upon at least 30 days notice. These series have annual dividend rates ranging from 6.125% to 7.5% and have an aggregate redemption value of approximately $873 million. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred securities will depend upon many factors including when, or if, market conditions improve such that we can issue new preferred shares at a lower cost of capital than the shares that would be redeemed. Repurchases of Companys Equity and Preferred Securities: Dislocations in capital markets have provided opportunities for the repurchase of our preferred and debt securities. During 2009, we repurchased certain of our Cumulative Preferred Shares in privately negotiated transactions with a liquidation value of $24.6 million for approximately $17.5 million, including accrued dividends, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $1.8 million per year. Also during 2009, we repurchased certain of our Preferred Partnership Units in privately negotiated transactions with a carrying amount of $225 million for approximately $153 million, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $14.4 million per year. Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares. From the inception of the repurchase program through February 26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million. Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common shares. These acquisitions were funded with cash on hand. We continue to monitor the existing trading ranges of all our outstanding debt and equity securities for potential opportunities. Contractual Obligations Our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and their impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending December 31 (amounts in thousands): Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Long term debt (1) $ 605,557 $ 41,257 $ 154,355 $ 74,722 $ 259,845 $ 28,472 $ 46,906 Operating leases (2) 95,745 6,135 5,561 5,269 5,046 4,998 68,736 Construction commitments (3) 10,055 10,055 Total $ 711,357 $ 57,447 $ 159,916 $ 79,991 $ 264,891 $ 33,470 $ 115,642 (1) Amounts include principal and fixed rate interest payments on our notes payable based on their contractual terms. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional information on our notes payable. (2) We lease land, equipment and office space under various operating leases. Certain leases are cancelable, however, significant penalties would be incurred upon cancellation. Amounts reflected above consider continuance of the lease without cancellation. (3) Includes contractual obligations for development and capital expenditures at December 31, 2009. 54 We have not included any additional funding requirements that we may be required to make to Shurgard Europe as a contractual obligation in the table above, since it is uncertain whether or not we will be required to fund any additional amounts and because such funding is subject to our assent. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we called for redemption our Equity Shares, Series A. These shares will be redeemed on April 15, 2010 for an aggregate of $205.2 million or $24.50 per share. These amounts are not included in the table above as they were not an obligation at December 31, 2009. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements: At December 31, 2009 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S K 303(a)(4) and the instructions thereto. 55 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk To limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations and growth with permanent equity capital consisting of retained operating cash flow, capital raised through the issuance of common shares and preferred shares. At December 31, 2009, our debt as a percentage of total equity (based on book values) was 5.7%. Our preferred shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders. These shares, however, are redeemable, after a set period of time, at our option. At December 31, 2009, our Series V, Series W, Series X, Series Y, Series Z, Series A, Series B and Series C preferred shares are currently redeemable by us at our option. Except under certain conditions relating to the Companys qualification as a REIT, the preferred shares are not redeemable by the Company pursuant to its redemption option prior to the dates set forth in Note 8 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Our market risk sensitive instruments include notes payable, which totaled $518,889,000 at December 31, 2009. We have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in Shurgard Europe, which has a book value of $272.3 million at December 31, 2009. We also have a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe, which is denominated in Euros, totaling 391.9 million ($561.7 million) at December 31, 2009. We also have an obligation, in certain circumstances, to loan up to an additional 185 million ($265.2 million) to Shurgard Europe. The table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at December 31, 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ 12,710 $ 131,352 $ 55,575 $ 251,421 $ 25,400 $ 42,431 $ 518,889 $ 525,883 Average interest rate 5.68 % 5.69 % 5.70 % 5.62 % 5.50 % 5.50 % Variable rate debt (1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average interest rate (1) Amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in March 2012. As of December 31, 2009, we have no borrowings under our line of credit. 56 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our present intention is to continue to finance substantially all our growth with cash on hand ($763.8 million at December 31, 2009), internally generated cash flows and permanent capital. Borrowing: We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary bridge financing, and repaid those amounts with permanent capital. Our debt outstanding currently represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions or in connection with the Shurgard Merger. When we have assumed such debt in the past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay. While it is not our present intention to issue additional debt as a long term financing strategy, we have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our objectives without a vote of our shareholders. Our senior debt has an A credit rating by Standard and Poors combined with our low level of debt, we believe we could issue a significant amount of unsecured debt, at attractive rates, in the current markets. These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in Limitations on Debt below. 9 Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past, most notably the issuance of 38,913,187 common shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger in 2006. Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities. Joint Venture financing: We have historically formed and may form additional joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future developments or acquisitions. Disposition of properties: We historically have disposed of self storage facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not. Investments in Real Estate and Real Estate Entities Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote: Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self storage properties (the nature of our self storage properties is described in Item 2, Properties), as well as partial interests in entities that own self storage properties. Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self storage facilities that are managed by us under the Public Storage brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the Shurgard Storage Centers brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe. Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest. To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, Properties), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB. Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries In addition to our direct ownership of 1,523 self storage facilities in the U.S. and one self storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2009 with an aggregate of approximately 98 million net rentable square feet, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 468 self storage facilities in the U.S. with approximately 28 million net rentable square feet. In addition to our self storage space, we own approximately 1.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space primarily located adjacent to our self storage facilities. Because of our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements. Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Entities At December 31, 2009, we had ownership interests in PSB, which owned approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space at December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe, which had ownership interests in 187 facilities with approximately 10 million net rentable square feet of storage space, and certain limited partnerships owning an aggregate of 19 self storage facilities with approximately 1 million net rentable square feet of storage space. Collectively these entities are referred to as the Unconsolidated Entities. 10 PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that are not included in our consolidated financial statements. The limited partnerships have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Entities. Limitations on Debt Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in a ratio of Debt to Assets (the Debt Ratio) in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2009, the Debt Ratio was approximately 4%. Debt means the liabilities (other than accrued and other liabilities and redeemable noncontrolling interests) that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. Assets means our total assets before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on the consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default. Employees We have approximately 4,900 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2009 who render services on behalf of the Company, primarily personnel engaged in property operations. None of our employees in the U.S. are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are generally amicable. Seasonality We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months. Insurance We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles. The aggregate limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage and $102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted. Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named perils (earthquakes and floods are not covered by these policies) to goods stored by tenants at our self storage facilities for individual limits up to a maximum of $5,000. We have third party insurance coverage for claims paid exceeding $1,000,000 resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of $25,000,000. At December 31, 2009, there were approximately 585,000 certificate holders held by our tenants, participating in this program representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.3 billion. Because each certificate represents insurance of goods held by a tenant at our self storage facilities, the geographic concentration of this $1.3 billion in coverage is dispersed throughout all of our U.S. facilities. We rely on a third party insurance company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states. 11 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10 K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company. This section contains forward looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward looking statements that are described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1. Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. Since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate related assets, including: lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale; changes in general economic or local conditions; natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods; which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage; potential terrorist attacks; changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area; the impact of environmental protection laws; changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets; increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses; transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes; adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and tenant and employment related claims. In addition, we self insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third party insurers. This results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third party insurance contracts, as described in Note 13 under Insurance and Loss Exposure to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. There is significant competition among self storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. Most of our properties are self storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. Local market conditions will play a significant part in how competition will affect us. Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located from other self storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant and has affected the occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses of most of our properties. Any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. Further development of self storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. 12 We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities. As an owner and operator of real properties, under various federal, state and local environmental laws, we are required to clean up spills or other releases of hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties. Certain environmental laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In some cases, liability may not be limited to the value of the property. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, whether from environmental or microbial issues, also may adversely affect the owners or operators ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its property as collateral. We have conducted preliminary environmental assessments of most of our properties (and intend to conduct these assessments in connection with property acquisitions) to evaluate the environmental condition of, and potential environmental liabilities associated with, our properties. These assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of available information regarding the site and publicly available data regarding conditions at other sites in the vicinity. In connection with these property assessments, our operations and recent property acquisitions, we have become aware that prior operations or activities at some facilities or from nearby locations have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these facilities. In this regard, some of our facilities are or may be the subject of federal or state environmental investigations or remedial actions. We have obtained, with respect to recent acquisitions, and intend to obtain with respect to pending or future acquisitions, appropriate purchase price adjustments or indemnifications that we believe are sufficient to cover any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available to cover any liability from environmental contamination or potential contamination and we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint concerning moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and or become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures in accordance with guidelines and protocols we have developed with the assistance of outside experts. We seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve moisture infiltration and mold related issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. Delays in development and fill up of our properties would reduce our profitability. From January 1, 2005, through December 31, 2009, we opened 17 newly developed self storage facilities in the U.S. at a cost of approximately $142 million. Shurgard Europe has developed and opened 55 facilities since January 1, 2005 at a cost of approximately $426 million, and has two development projects under construction with total estimated costs of $24 million. Delays in the rent up of newly developed storage space as a result of competition or other factors, including the slowdown in the general economy which has negatively impacted storage demand, would adversely impact our profitability. If we or Shurgard Europe were to commence significant development of facilities, construction delays due to weather, unforeseen site conditions, personnel problems, and other factors, as well as cost overruns, would adversely affect our profitability. Property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. Each of our properties is subject to real property taxes. These real property taxes may increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. Recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels. Such increases could adversely impact our profitability. 13 We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. All our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations (the ADA). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities, but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to persons with disabilities. Various state laws impose similar requirements. A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state laws could result in government imposed fines on us and could award damages to individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. Compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. We incur liability from tenant and employment related claims. From time to time we must resolve tenant claims and employment related claims by corporate level and field personnel. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. There continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. These negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely affect disposable incomes, have and are likely to continue to adversely affect our business. As a further result of the current global financial crisis, our ability to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates has been and may continue to be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. While we currently believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual, long term continued turbulence in the credit markets and in the national economy may adversely affect our access to capital and adversely impact earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. We grow our business primarily through acquisitions of existing properties and are subject to risks related to acquisitions that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. We grow our business in large part through the acquisition of existing properties, including acquisitions of businesses owned by other storage operators. In addition to the general risks related to real estate described above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties, we are also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and the integration of acquired properties into our operations. Any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could negatively impact our financial results. If acquired facilities are not properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired operations with our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. To fully realize any anticipated benefits from an acquisition, we must successfully complete the combination of the businesses of Public Storage and acquired properties in a manner that permits cost savings to be realized. It is possible that the integration process could result in a decline in occupancy and or rental rates, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants and employees or to achieve anticipated benefits, particularly with large acquisitions. Acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. Facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal, which can increase property tax expense. There is a degree of uncertainty involved in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired property. In future acquisitions of properties, if actual property tax expenses following reappraisal are significantly greater than we expected, our operating results could be negatively impacted. 14 As a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of Shurgard Europe with a book value of $272.3 million at December 31, 2009, and our loan to Shurgard Europe aggregating $561.7 million at December 31, 2009, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results. We have limited experience in European operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe. In addition, European operations have specific inherent risks, including without limitation the following: currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our $272.3 million book value equity investment in Shurgard Europe, as well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to Shurgard Europe; unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements; potentially adverse tax burdens; burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws; the potential impact of collective bargaining; obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; regional, national and local political uncertainty; economic slowdown and or downturn in foreign markets; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; inability to effectively control less than wholly owned partnerships and joint ventures; and the importance of local senior management and the potential negative ramifications of the departure of key executives. Based upon current market conditions and recent operating result trends of Shurgard Europe, the following specific risks apply with respect to our investment in, and loan to, Shurgard Europe: 15 We have an obligation to loan up to an additional 185 million ($265.2 million at December 31, 2009) to Shurgard Europe, and provide additional equity contributions of up to $66.4 million. We have a commitment, which expires March 31, 2010, to provide up to 185 million of additional loans to Shurgard Europe under the same terms as the existing loans, to fund the possible acquisition of Shurgard Europes joint venture partners interest in the joint ventures and or repay Shurgard Europes pro rata share of the joint venture debt. In addition, we are committed to provide up to $66.4 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain other investing activities. While the acquisition of the joint venture partners interests are subject to our approval, Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and any other investing activities generally require our approval, these commitments may require us to provide additional funds to Shurgard Europe in amounts or under terms that we may not have otherwise agreed to. Joint Ventures that Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in have significant refinancing requirements. Shurgard Europes two joint ventures collectively had approximately 224 million ($321 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009. These loans are secured by the joint ventures respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe, or any third party. One of the joint venture loans, totaling 107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan, totaling 117 million ($168 million), is due in July 2010. If Shurgard Europes joint ventures were unable to refinance or otherwise repay these loans when due, it is our expectation that the loans would be repaid with each joint venture partner contributing their pro rata share towards repayment. Shurgard Europes pro rata share, in the aggregate, would be approximately 50 million ($72 million) which Shurgard Europe fund either from available cash on hand or equity contributions from Public Storage and our joint venture partner. Further, it is also possible that Shurgard Europes joint venture partner would be unable to contribute its pro rata share to repay the loans and may trigger, through its rights under the related partnership documents, the liquidation of the partnership, which could result in Shurgard Europes acquisition of its joint venture partners interest or the sale of the properties to third parties, with potential loss or reduction to our investment if the liquidation proceeds were not sufficient. If Shurgard Europe were to acquire its joint venture partners interest by March 31, 2010, it could borrow on the aforementioned 185 million loan commitment we have provided to fund the purchase of the joint venture partners interest and repayment of the loans. Shurgard Europes ability to refinance its $561.7 million loan from us, which is due in March 2013, may be limited if current market conditions persist. We have loaned Shurgard Europe 391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31, 2009), and this loan is due in March 2013. If the currently constrained capital market and bank loan availability persists, it is likely that Shurgard Europe may be unable to refinance the entire loan. If Shurgard Europe is unable to obtain financing to raise funds to repay our loan, we may have to negotiate an equity or debt contribution by our joint venture partner to Shurgard Europe, extend the loan, or otherwise take steps under our lender rights. Any of these steps could negatively impact our investment and the liquidity of Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europes operating trends are negative. Shurgard Europes same store revenue is down 3.6% in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 2008 on a constant exchange rate basis. Shurgard Europe may have continued reductions in same store revenues, which will adversely impact their operating results and, as a result, the value of our investment in Shurgard Europe. Such reductions may negatively impact Shurgard Europes liquidity and ability to repay its debt, including the debt owed to Public Storage, due to declining interest coverage ratios and other similar metrics upon which potential lenders typically base their lending decisions. We are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures. In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Shurgard and the acquisition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe by an institutional investor on March 31, 2008, we have interests in several joint ventures. Joint ventures may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following: 16 Risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner. The inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree. The risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments. The risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate. The risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as collateral. The risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could not prevent these actions. The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to non compete clauses in our joint venture arrangements. The risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners. The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders. At December 31, 2009, B. Wayne Hughes, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and his family (the Hughes Family) owned approximately 17.3% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares and also allows for cumulative voting in the election of trustees. Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders. Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of our shares. Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the control share acquisitions provisions of Maryland law, but the Board may change this option as to either statute in the future. If the Board chooses to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. Similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Boards ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in common shareholders best interest. 17 To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code, our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than designated investment entities (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. These limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. If we failed to qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes. REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders (which may take into account certain dividends paid in the subsequent year). Other restrictions apply to our income and assets. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. Furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. We have also assumed, based on Shurgard Storage Center, Inc.s public filings and due diligence performed in connection with our acquisition of Shurgard, that Shurgard qualified as a REIT through the date of the Shurgard Merger on August 22, 2006. However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities (including the significant tax liability that would have resulted from the deemed sale of assets by Shurgard to us as part of the Shurgard Merger). We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries of the Company for federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. In addition, if we receive or accrue certain amounts and the underlying economic arrangements among our taxable REIT subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of amounts the Internal Revenue Service deems reasonable between unrelated parties. To the extent that the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. We have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the Internet and are faced with system security risks. We have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems are dependent upon third party providers. As a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party providers. Even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication and back up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could negatively impact our operations. In addition, a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet, increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. Experienced computer programmers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Nearly half of our move ins comes from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or Internet). 18 We have no interest in Canadian self storage facilities owned by the Hughes Family. The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 52 self storage facilities in Canada under the name Public Storage, which name we license to the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a non exclusive basis. We currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in Canada. We have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self storage facilities in Canada if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them. However, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self storage facilities. Although we have no current plans to enter the Canadian self storage market, if we choose to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in their Canadian self storage properties, our right to use the Public Storage name in Canada may be shared with the Hughes Family unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self storage facilities in Canada in which the Hughes Family has ownership interests. We acquired the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS Insurance Company, or PSICH. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, PSICH received $642,000 and $768,000, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian Facilities. Since PSICHs right to provide tenant reinsurance to the Canadian Facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as current federal legislative proposals to expand health care coverage costs or facilitate union activity or otherwise increase operating costs. Our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. We hold Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. This state governmental supervision could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by increasing the costs of regulatory compliance, limiting or restricting the products or services we provide or the methods by which we provide products and services, or subjecting our businesses to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Furthermore, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our businesses can continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction as it has been conducted in the past. For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our revenues. 19 Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the U.S., the European Community, or their businesses or interests. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are headquartered in, and approximately one fifth of our properties in the U.S. are located in California. The state of California and many local jurisdictions are facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes on commercial properties, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed Business Net Receipts Tax or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to reenact legislation mandating medical insurance for employees of California businesses and members of their families. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 20 ITEM 2. Properties At December 31, 2009, we had direct and indirect ownership interests in 2,010 and 188 storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. and seven Western European nations, respectively: At December 31, 2009 Number of Storage Facilities (a) Net Rentable Square Feet (in thousands) United States: California: Southern 204 14,231 Northern 170 9,927 Texas 236 15,493 Florida 191 12,520 Illinois 123 7,800 Washington 91 6,028 Georgia 92 5,964 North Carolina 69 4,775 Virginia 78 4,453 New York 62 4,015 Colorado 59 3,713 New Jersey 56 3,524 Maryland 56 3,290 Minnesota 44 2,990 Michigan 43 2,755 Arizona 37 2,259 South Carolina 40 2,155 Missouri 37 2,136 Oregon 39 2,006 Indiana 31 1,926 Pennsylvania 28 1,867 Ohio 30 1,860 Nevada 24 1,561 Tennessee 27 1,528 Kansas 22 1,310 Massachusetts 19 1,179 Wisconsin 15 968 Other states (12 states) 87 4,813 Total U.S. 2,010 127,046 Europe (b): France 56 2,958 Netherlands 39 2,078 Sweden 30 1,614 Belgium 21 1,254 United Kingdom 21 1,119 Germany 11 552 Denmark 10 550 Total Europe 188 10,125 Grand Total 2,198 137,171 (a) See Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation in the Companys 2009 financials, for a complete list of properties consolidated by the Company. (b) The facilities located in Europe include one facility in the United Kingdom that we wholly own, as well as the facilities in which Shurgard Europe has an ownership interest. 21 Our facilities are generally operated to maximize cash flow through the regular review and adjustment of rents charged to our tenants. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average occupancy level and the average realized rent per occupied square foot for our self storage facilities were approximately 88% and $12.77, respectively, in the U.S. and 79% and $25.43, respectively, in Europe. At December 31, 2009, 89 of our U.S. facilities were encumbered by an aggregate of $227 million in secured notes payable. We have no specific policy as to the maximum size of any one particular self storage facility. However, none of our facilities involves, or is expected to involve, 1% or more of our total assets, gross revenues or net income. Description of Self Storage Facilities: Self storage facilities, which comprise the majority of our investments, are designed to offer accessible storage space for personal and business use at a relatively low cost. A user rents a fully enclosed space, securing the space with their own lock, which is for the users exclusive use and to which only the user has access on an unrestricted basis during business hours. On site operation is the responsibility of property managers who are supervised by district managers. Some self storage facilities also include rentable uncovered parking areas for vehicle storage. Storage facility spaces are rented on a month to month basis. Rental rates vary according to the location of the property, the size of the storage space, and other characteristics that affect the relative attractiveness of each particular space, such as whether the space has drive up access or its proximity to elevators. All of our self storage facilities in the U.S. are operated under the "Public Storage" brand name, while our facilities in Europe are operated under the Shurgard Storage Centers brand name. Users of space in self storage facilities include individuals from virtually all demographic groups, as well as businesses. Individuals usually obtain this space for storage of furniture, household appliances, personal belongings, motor vehicles, boats, campers, motorcycles and other household goods. Businesses normally employ this space for storage of excess inventory, business records, seasonal goods, equipment and fixtures. Our self storage facilities generally consist of three to seven buildings containing an aggregate of between 350 to 750 storage spaces, most of which have between 25 and 400 square feet and an interior height of approximately eight to 12 feet. We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months. Our self storage facilities are geographically diversified and are located primarily in or near major metropolitan markets in 38 states in the U.S. and seven Western European nations. Generally our self storage facilities are located in heavily populated areas and close to concentrations of apartment complexes, single family residences and commercial developments. However, there may be circumstances in which it may be appropriate to own a property in a less populated area, for example, in an area that is highly visible from a major thoroughfare and close to, although not in, a heavily populated area. Moreover, in certain population centers, land costs and zoning restrictions may create a demand for space in nearby less populated areas. Competition from other self storage facilities as well as other forms of storage in the market areas in which most of our properties are located in the U.S., and certain of our properties in Western Europe, is significant and has affected the occupancy levels, rental rates, and operating expenses of many of our properties. Since our investments are primarily self storage facilities, our ability to preserve our investments and achieve our objectives is dependent in large part upon success in this field. We believe that self storage facilities, upon stabilization, have attractive characteristics consisting of high profit margins, a broad tenant base and low levels of capital expenditures to maintain their condition and appearance. While we have seen a decrease in cash flow generation at our same store facilities in 2009 due primarily to the high unemployment, historically, upon stabilization after an initial fill up period, the U.S. self storage facilities we have an interest in have generally shown a high degree of consistency in generating cash flows. 22 Commercial Properties: In addition to our interests in 2,198 self storage facilities, we have an interest in PSB, which, as of December 31, 2009, owns and operates approximately 19.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space in eight states. At December 31, 2009, the $326 million book value of our investment in PSB represents approximately 3% of our total assets. The $656 million market value of our investment in PSB at December 31, 2009 represents approximately 7% of the book value of our total assets. We also directly own 1.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space, primarily located at our existing self storage locations, comprised primarily of individual retail locations. This space is managed for us by PSB. The commercial properties owned by PSB consist primarily of flex, multi tenant office and industrial space. Flex space is defined as buildings that are configured with a combination of office and warehouse space and can be designed to fit a wide variety of uses (including office, assembly, showroom, laboratory, light manufacturing and warehouse space). Environmental Matters: Our policy is to accrue environmental assessments and estimated remediation cost when it is probable that such efforts will be required and the related costs can be reasonably estimated. Our current practice is to conduct environmental investigations in connection with property acquisitions. Although there can be no assurance, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of any of our facilities, which individually or in the aggregate would be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operations. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings Brinkley v. Public Storage, Inc. (filed April 2005) (Superior Court of California Los Angeles County) The plaintiff sued the Company on behalf of a purported class of California non exempt employees based on various California wage and hour laws. Plaintiff sought certification for alleged meal period violations, rest period violations, failure to pay for travel time, failure to pay for mileage reimbursement, and for wage statement violations. The Court certified subclasses based only on alleged meal period and wage statement violations. In June 2007, the Court granted the Companys summary judgment motion as to the causes of action relating to the subclasses certified and dismissed those claims. Plaintiff appealed. The Court of Appeals sustained the dismissal. The California Supreme Court granted review but deferred the matter pending disposition of a related issue in another case. Other Items We are a party to various claims, complaints, and other legal actions that have arisen in the normal course of business from time to time that are not described above. We believe that it is unlikely that the outcome of these other pending legal proceedings including employment and tenant claims, in the aggregate, will have a material adverse impact upon our operations or financial position. 23 PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities a. Market Information of the Registrants Common Equity: Our Common Shares (NYSE: PSA), including those of Public Storage, Inc. prior to our reorganization in June 2007, have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since October 19, 1984. Our Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A (NYSE:PSAA) (see section c. below), including those of Public Storage, Inc. prior to our reorganization in June 2007 have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since February 14, 2000. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange composite tapes for the applicable periods. Range Year Quarter High Low 2008 1st $ 94.98 $ 65.66 2nd 98.01 78.85 3rd 102.48 75.00 4th 105.87 52.52 2009 1st 79.88 45.35 2nd 68.97 53.32 3rd 79.47 61.35 4th 85.10 70.76 The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A on the New York Stock Exchange composite tapes for the applicable periods. Range Year Quarter High Low 2008 1st $ 26.00 $ 24.14 2nd 26.33 25.05 3rd 26.50 24.50 4th 26.05 18.12 2009 1st 25.00 21.38 2nd 25.40 21.39 3rd 25.68 24.17 4th 32.35 25.10 As of February 15, 2010, there were approximately 18,788 holders of record of Common Shares and approximately 9,190 holders of Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A. b. Dividends We have paid quarterly distributions to our shareholders since 1981, our first full year of operations. During 2009, we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $0.55 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. Total distributions on common shares for 2009 amounted to $370.4 million or $2.20 per share. During 2008, we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $0.55 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, and a distribution of $1.15 per common share (including a $0.60 per share special dividend) for the quarter ended December 31. Total distributions on common shares for 2008 amounted to $470.8 million or $2.80 per share. Included in these amounts are $101.0 million or $0.60 per common share with respect to a special cash dividend paid in December 2008. During 2007, we paid distributions to our common shareholders of $0.50 per common share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. Total distributions on common shares for 2007 amounted to $338.7 million or $2.00 per share. 24 Holders of common shares are entitled to receive distributions when and if declared by our Board of Trustees out of any funds legally available for that purpose. In order to maintain our REIT status for federal income tax purposes, we are generally required to pay dividends at least equal to 90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income for the taxable year (for this purpose, certain dividends paid in the subsequent year may be taken into account). We intend to continue to pay distributions sufficient to permit us to maintain our REIT status. For Federal income tax purposes, distributions to shareholders are treated as ordinary income, capital gains, return of capital or a combination thereof. For 2009, the dividends paid on common shares ($2.20 per share), on all the various classes of preferred shares, and on our Equity Shares, Series A were classified as follows: 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Ordinary Income 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 98.5716 % 100.0000 % Long term Capital Gain 0.0000 % 0.0000 % 1.4284 % 0.0000 % Total 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % For 2008, the dividends paid on common shares ($2.80 per share), on all the various classes of preferred shares, and on our Equity Shares, Series A were classified as follows: 1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 3rd Quarter 4th Quarter Ordinary Income 99.9668 % 99.6512 % 99.8319 % 100.0000 % Long term Capital Gain 0.0332 % 0.3488 % 0.1681 % 0.0000 % Total 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % 100.0000 % c. Equity Shares The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 Equity Shares. Our declaration of trust provides that the Equity Shares may be issued from time to time in one or more series and gives the Board of Trustees broad authority to fix the dividend and distribution rights, conversion and voting rights, redemption provisions and liquidation rights of each series of Equity Shares. At December 31, 2009, we had 8,377,193 Depositary Shares outstanding, each representing 1/1,000 of an Equity Share, Series A. The Equity Shares, Series A rank on a parity with our common shares and junior to the Senior Preferred Shares with respect to distributions and liquidation and has a liquidation amount which cannot exceed $24.50 per share. Distributions with respect to each depositary share shall be the lesser of: a) five times the per share dividend on the Common Shares or b) $2.45 per annum. Except in order to preserve the Companys Federal income tax status as a REIT, we may not redeem the depositary shares before March 31, 2010. If the Company fails to preserve its Federal income tax status as a REIT, each depositary share will be convertible into 0.956 of our common shares. The depositary shares are otherwise not convertible into common shares. Holders of depositary shares vote as a single class with our holders of common shares on shareholder matters, but the depositary shares have the equivalent of one tenth of a vote per depositary share. We have no obligation to pay distributions on the depositary shares if no distributions are paid to common shareholders. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly distributions to the holders of the Equity Shares, Series A of $0.6125 per share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. Pursuant to our option to redeem the security after March 31, 2010, on April 15, 2010, we will be redeeming all of our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash redemption price of $24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2 million. Since the initial issuance of these securities, the annual dividend paid has been $2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield of 10%. 25 In November 1999, we sold $100,000,000 (4,289,544 shares) of Equity Shares, Series AAA (Equity Shares AAA) to a newly formed joint venture. The Equity Shares AAA ranks on a parity with common shares and junior to the Senior Preferred Shares with respect to general preference rights, and has a liquidation amount equal to 120% of the amount distributed to each common share. Annual distributions per share are equal to the lesser of (i) five times the amount paid per common share or (ii) $2.1564. We have no obligation to pay distributions if no distributions are paid to common shareholders. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly distributions to one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, which is the holder of the Equity Shares, Series AAA of $0.5391 per share for each of the quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. d. Common Share Repurchases Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2007 and 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares. During 2008, we repurchased 1,520,196 common shares for approximately $111.9 million. From the inception of the repurchase program through February 26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million. Our common share repurchase program does not have an expiration date and there are 11,278,084 common shares that may yet be repurchased under our repurchase program as of December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares outside our publicly announced repurchase program. Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common shares. 26 ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data For the year ended December 31, 2009 2008 (1)(2) 2007 (1)(2) 2006 (1)(2) 2005 (2) (Amounts in thousands, except per share data) Revenues: Rental income and ancillary operations $ 1,597,889 $ 1,687,438 $ 1,775,785 $ 1,317,963 $ 1,012,264 Interest and other income 29,813 36,155 11,417 31,799 16,447 1,627,702 1,723,593 1,787,202 1,349,762 1,028,711 Expenses: Cost of operations (excluding depreciation) 522,939 555,618 631,154 471,725 352,343 Depreciation and amortization 340,233 411,981 619,598 435,496 193,167 General and administrative 35,735 62,809 59,749 84,661 21,115 Interest expense 29,916 43,944 63,671 33,062 8,216 928,823 1,074,352 1,374,172 1,024,944 574,841 Income from continuing operations before equity in earnings of real estate entities, gain (loss) on disposition of real estate investments, gain on early retirement of debt, casualty gain or loss, and foreign currency exchange gain (loss) net 698,879 649,241 413,030 324,818 453,870 Equity in earnings of real estate entities 53,244 20,391 12,738 11,895 24,883 Gain on disposition of real estate investments, early retirement of debt and casualty gain or loss, net 37,540 336,020 5,212 2,177 1,182 Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 9,662 (25,362 ) 58,444 4,262 Income from continuing operations 799,325 980,290 489,424 343,152 479,935 Discontinued operations and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (8,869 ) (6,418 ) (2,346 ) 2,757 9,109 Net income 790,456 973,872 487,078 345,909 489,044 Net income allocated from (to) noncontrolling equity interests 44,165 (38,696 ) (29,543 ) (31,883 ) (32,651 ) Net income allocable to Public Storage shareholders $ 834,621 $ 935,176 $ 457,535 $ 314,026 $ 456,393 Per Common Share: Distributions $ 2.20 $ 2.80 $ 2.00 $ 2.00 $ 1.90 Net income Basic $ 3.48 $ 4.19 $ 1.18 $ 0.33 $ 1.98 Net income Diluted $ 3.47 $ 4.18 $ 1.17 $ 0.33 $ 1.97 Weighted average common shares Basic 168,358 168,250 169,342 142,760 128,159 Weighted average common shares Diluted 168,768 168,675 169,850 143,344 128,686 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 9,805,645 $ 9,936,045 $ 10,643,102 $ 11,198,473 $ 5,552,486 Total debt $ 518,889 $ 643,811 $ 1,069,928 $ 1,848,542 $ 149,647 Public Storage shareholders equity $ 8,928,407 $ 8,708,995 $ 8,763,129 $ 8,208,045 $ 4,817,009 Permanent noncontrolling interests equity $ 132,974 $ 358,109 $ 500,127 $ 499,178 $ 253,970 Other Data: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,112,857 $ 1,076,971 $ 1,047,652 $ 769,440 $ 691,327 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (91,409 ) $ 340,018 $ (261,876 ) $ (473,630 ) $ (452,425 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (938,401 ) $ (984,076 ) $ (1,081,504 ) $ (244,395 ) $ (121,146 ) (1) The significant increase in our revenues, cost of operations, depreciation and amortization, and interest expense in 2006 and 2007, and the significant increase in total assets, total debt and shareholders equity in 2006, is due to our acquisition of Shurgard Storage Centers in August 2006. The significant decrease in our revenues, cost of operations, depreciation and amortization, and interest expense in 2008, and the significant decrease in total assets, total debt and other equity in 2008, is due to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008. See Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further information. (2) As further discussed in Note 2 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, certain amounts have been restated as a result of the application of certain new accounting standards on January 1, 2009, which standards required retroactive application. 27 ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Forward Looking Statements: This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storages actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. As a result, you should not rely on any forward looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where expressly required by law. Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward looking statements to anticipate future results. Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (SEC). Critical Accounting Policies Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The notes to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Management believes the following are critical accounting policies, the application of which has a material impact on the Companys financial presentation. That is, they are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Qualification as a REIT Income Tax Expense: We believe that we have been organized and operated, and we intend to continue to operate, as a qualifying REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state laws. We also believe that Shurgard, prior to merging with us, qualified as a REIT. A REIT generally does not pay corporate level federal income taxes on its REIT taxable income that is distributed to its shareholders, and accordingly, we do not pay federal income tax on the share of our REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. We therefore do not estimate or accrue any federal income tax expense for income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be incorrect, because due to the complex nature of the REIT qualification requirements, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we actually have satisfied or will satisfy the requirements for taxation as a REIT for any particular taxable year. For any taxable year that we fail or have failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we made or make any distributions to our shareholders. Any resulting requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable penalties or interest, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also would not be eligible to elect REIT status for any taxable year prior to the fifth taxable year which begins after the first taxable year for which a REIT status was terminated. There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory relief. In addition, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we would succeed to significant tax liabilities. 28 Impairment of Long Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of real estate which are long lived assets. The evaluation of our long lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of impairment exist, which is a subjective process. When any indicators of impairment are found, the evaluation of such long lived assets then entails projections of future operating cash flows, which also involves significant judgment. Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future that our long lived assets are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Estimated Useful Lives of Long Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of depreciable or amortizable long lived assets. We record depreciation and amortization expense with respect to these assets based upon their estimated useful lives. Any change in the estimated useful lives of those assets, caused by functional or economic obsolescence or other factors, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Accruals for Contingencies: We are exposed to business and legal liability risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we have not accrued for certain potential liabilities because the loss is either not probable or not estimable or because we are not aware of the event. Future events and the results of pending litigation could result in such potential losses becoming probable and estimable, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Significant unaccrued losses that we have determined are at least reasonably possible are described in Note 13 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Accruals for Operating Expenses: Certain of our expenses are estimated based upon assumptions regarding past and future trends, such as losses for workers compensation and employee health plans, and estimated claims for our tenant reinsurance program. Our property tax expense, which as a real estate operator represents one of our largest expenses totaling approximately $150 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, has significant estimated components. Most notably, in certain jurisdictions we do not receive tax bills for the current fiscal year until after our earnings are finalized, and as a result, we must estimate tax expense based upon anticipated implementation of regulations and trends. If these estimates and assumptions were incorrect, our expenses could be misstated. Valuation of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations: We have estimated the fair value of real estate, intangible assets, debt, and the other assets and other liabilities acquired in business combinations, most notably the Shurgard Merger. We have acquired these assets, in certain cases, with non cash assets, most notably the 38.9 million shares that we issued to the Shurgard shareholders. These estimates are based upon many assumptions, including interest rates, market values of land and buildings in the U.S. and Europe, estimated future cash flows from the tenant base in place at the time of the merger, and the recoverability of certain assets. We believe that the assumptions used were reasonable, however, these assumptions were subject to a significant degree of judgment, and others could use different assumptions and therefore come to materially different conclusions as to the estimated values. If estimated values had been different, our depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, gain on disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, investments in real estate entities, real estate, debt, and intangible assets could be materially different. Overview of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Operations Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month to month basis, for personal and business use. We are the largest owner and operator of self storage facilities in the U.S., and we have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe, which we believe is the largest owner and operator of self storage facilities in Europe. 29 We currently operate within three reportable segments: (i) Domestic Self Storage, (ii) Europe Self Storage and (iii) Commercial. The Domestic Self Storage segment comprises the direct and indirect ownership, development, and operation of storage facilities in the U.S. Our Europe Self Storage segment comprises our equity interest in the self storage operations in Europe through our 49% ownership in Shurgard Europe and its associated activities in seven countries in Western Europe. Our Commercial segment includes our commercial property operations, directly and through our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (PSB), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PSB (as of December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space). See Investment in PSB under Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities below for information regarding transactions related to our investment in PSB recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009. Our other activities not allocated to any segment include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self storage facilities, (ii) merchandise sales at our self storage facilities and (iii) management of self storage facilities owned by third party owners and domestic facilities owned by the affiliated entities that are not consolidated. During 2009, we decided to terminate our containerized storage and truck rental operations. Accordingly, the related results of operations have been included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income. Our self storage facilities in the U.S. comprise approximately 93% of our operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, and represent the primary driver of growth in our net income and cash flows from operations. In addition, most of our ancillary revenues are derived at our self storage facility locations, either from our existing self storage customer base or from the customer traffic within our self storage facilities. Accordingly, a large portion of management time and focus is placed upon maximizing revenues and effectively managing expenses in our self storage facilities. The self storage industry is subject to general economic conditions, particularly those that affect the disposable income and spending of consumers, as well as those that affect moving trends. Due to the recessionary pressures in the U.S. and Europe, demand for self storage space was soft in 2009 and continues to be soft. As a result, we are experiencing downward pressure on occupancy levels, rental rates, and revenues in our self storage facilities. An important determinant of our long term growth is the expansion of our asset base and deployment of capital. Acquisitions of self storage facilities have been minimal over the past two years as we continue to monitor seller expectations. However, we believe that there may be more opportunities to acquire facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which could force a sale of the properties. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders desire to extend loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. Historically we have developed and redeveloped self storage facilities. Our development activities have substantially ceased due to the existing economic environment and our belief that our capital can be more effectively put to use in other ways. On February 12, 2009, we acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our senior unsecured debt. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our preferred shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions for an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4 million. There could be opportunities for future acquisition of our own outstanding debt and equity securities, particularly if there were a return to the same acute turbulence in the credit and equity markets which occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Any future such transactions will depend upon our evaluation of the return of such investments relative to our other investment alternatives. There can be no assurance that any future such transactions will occur or the potential yield on such transactions. We have $763.8 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2009, and continue to evaluate opportunities to effectively deploy this capital. 30 Results of Operations Operating results for 2009 as compared to 2008: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $790.5 million compared to $973.9 million for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $183.4 million. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a gain of $344.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, (ii) a $37.9 million reduction in net operating income with respect to our Same Store Facilities described below, and (iii) an impairment charge included in discontinued operations with respect to intangible assets totaling $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, partially offset by (iv) a $49.9 million reduction in depreciation and amortization related to our domestic assets, primarily representing reduced intangible amortization, (v) a foreign exchange gain of $9.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to a loss of $25.4 million during the same period in 2008, (vi) a gain on disposition of $30.3 million related to an equity offering by PSB, and (vii) a reduction in general and administrative expenses due to $27.9 million in incentive compensation incurred in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. Revenues for the Same Store Facilities decreased 3.2% or $46.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008, due to a 2.8% reduction in realized rent per occupied square foot, combined with a 0.9% reduction in average occupancies. Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities decreased 1.8% or $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. Net operating income for our Same Store Facilities decreased 3.9% or $37.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $586.0 million or $3.47 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $119.8 million or $0.71 per common share on a diluted basis. These decreases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, offset by a $44.4 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred unitholders and preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 associated with the redemption of preferred securities occurring in both periods. Operating results for 2008 as compared to 2007: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $973.9 million compared to $487.1 million for the same period in 2007, representing an improvement of $486.8 million. This improvement is primarily due to a gain of $344.7 million recognized on the disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, improvements in net operating income with respect to our domestic self storage facilities and a reduction in amortization of intangible assets, offset by a foreign currency exchange loss of $25.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to a foreign exchange gain of $58.4 million in 2007. Comparisons of our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 to the year ended December 31, 2007 are significantly impacted by the acquisition by an institutional investor of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, which resulted in the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europes revenues and expenses after March 31, 2008 are excluded from our statement of operations and, instead, our 49% equity share of Shurgard Europes operating results are included in the line item equity in earnings of real estate entities and we also record interest and other income with respect to (i) the interest received on our intercompany loan from Shurgard Europe and (ii) license fee income. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $199.0 million or $1.17 per common share for the same period in 2007, representing an increase of $506.8 million or $3.01 per common share on a diluted basis. These increases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, partially offset by a $33.9 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2008 associated with the repurchase of securities. 31 Real Estate Operations Self Storage Operations: Our self storage operations are by far the largest component of our operating activities, representing more than 90% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. To enhance year over year comparisons, the table that follows summarizes, and the ensuing discussion describes, the operating results of three groups of facilities that management analyzes: (i) the Same Store group, representing the facilities in the Domestic Self Storage Segment that we have owned and have been operating on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007, (ii) all other facilities in the Domestic Self Storage Segment, which are primarily those consolidated facilities that we have not owned and operated at a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007 such as newly acquired, newly developed, or recently expanded facilities, and (iii) the facilities operated by Shurgard Europe which were deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. Self Storage Operations Summary Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change (Dollar amounts in thousands) Rental income: Same Store Facilities $ 1,389,515 $ 1,435,630 (3.2 )% $ 1,435,630 $ 1,396,758 2.8 % Other Facilities 100,777 88,665 13.7 % 88,665 71,039 24.8 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 54,722 (100.0 )% 54,722 192,507 (71.6 )% Total rental income 1,490,292 1,579,017 (5.6 )% 1,579,017 1,660,304 (4.9 )% Cost of operations: Same Store Facilities 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Other Facilities 32,315 31,640 2.1 % 31,640 27,936 13.3 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 24,654 (100.0 )% 24,654 91,689 (73.1 )% Total cost of operations 486,928 519,090 (6.2 )% 519,090 579,193 (10.4 )% Net operating income (b): Same Store Facilities 934,902 972,834 (3.9 )% 972,834 937,190 3.8 % Other Facilities 68,462 57,025 20.1 % 57,025 43,103 32.3 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 30,068 (100.0 )% 30,068 100,818 (70.2 )% Total net operating income 1,003,364 1,059,927 (5.3 )% 1,059,927 1,081,111 (2.0 )% Total depreciation and amortization expense (337,275 ) (409,081 ) (17.6 )% (409,081 ) (617,028 ) (33.7 )% Total net income $ 666,089 $ 650,846 2.3 % $ 650,846 $ 464,083 40.2 % Data for Same Store and Other Facilities: Weighted average square foot occupancy during the period: Same Store Facilities 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % Other Facilities 84.1 % 79.0 % 6.5 % 79.0 % 70.5 % 12.1 % Realized rents per occupied square foot during the period (c): Same Store Facilities $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % Other Facilities $ 13.62 $ 14.01 (2.8 )% $ 14.01 $ 14.35 (2.4 )% Number of facilities at period end: Same Store Facilities 1,899 1,899 1,899 1,899 Other Facilities 92 91 1.1 % 91 82 11.0 % Net rentable square footage at period end (in thousands): Same Store Facilities 117,462 117,462 117,462 117,462 Other Facilities 8,500 8,360 1.7 % 8,360 7,198 16.1 % Square foot occupancy at period end: Same Store Facilities 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.9 % (0.9 )% Other Facilities 84.9 % 80.0 % 6.1 % 80.0 % 71.5 % 11.9 % 32 Self Storage Operations Summary (Continued) Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change In place rents per occupied square foot at period end (d): Same Store Facilities $ 13.46 $ 14.02 (4.0 )% $ 14.02 $ 13.89 0.9 % Other Facilities $ 14.65 $ 15.14 (3.2 )% $ 15.14 $ 15.62 (3.1 )% (a) Represents the results with respect to Shurgard Europes properties for the periods consolidated in our financial statements. As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, effective March 31, 2008, we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe. See also Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities Investment in Shurgard Europe for further analysis of the historical same store property operations of Shurgard Europe. (b) See Net Operating Income or NOI below. (c) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (d) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Net income with respect to our self storage operations increased by $15.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, when compared to the same period in 2008. This was due to a) declining amortization of tenant intangible assets, b) a 1.8% reduction in cost of operations for the Same Store facilities, and c) a $12.1 million increase in revenues with respect to the Other Facilities, offset by d) a 3.2% decrease in revenues for our Same Store facilities and e) the deconsolidation of the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. Net income with respect to our self storage operations increased by $186.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, when compared to 2007 due to decreased amortization of tenant intangible assets and increased revenues for the Same Store facilities and the Other Facilities, offset partially by the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. 33 Net Operating Income We refer herein to net operating income (NOI) of our self storage facilities, which is a non GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization are a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, property performance, and comparing period to period and market to market property operating results. In addition, we believe the investment community utilizes NOI in determining operating performance and real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization or net income in evaluating our operating results. The following reconciles NOI generated by our self storage and Shurgard Europe segments to our consolidated net income in our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Amounts in thousands) Net operating income: Same store facilities $ 934,902 $ 972,834 $ 937,190 Other facilities 68,462 57,025 43,103 Shurgard Europe facilities 30,068 100,818 Total net operating income 1,003,364 1,059,927 1,081,111 Ancillary operating revenue 107,597 108,421 115,481 Interest and other income 29,813 36,155 11,417 Ancillary cost of operations (36,011 ) (36,528 ) (51,961 ) Depreciation and amortization (340,233 ) (411,981 ) (619,598 ) General and administrative expense (35,735 ) (62,809 ) (59,749 ) Interest expense (29,916 ) (43,944 ) (63,671 ) Equity in earnings of real estate entities 53,244 20,391 12,738 Gains on disposition of real estate investments and casualty losses, net 33,426 336,020 5,212 Gain on early debt retirement 4,114 Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 9,662 (25,362 ) 58,444 Discontinued operations (8,869 ) (6,418 ) (2,346 ) Net income of the Company $ 790,456 $ 973,872 $ 487,078 34 Same Store Facilities The Same Store Facilities represents those 1,899 facilities that we have owned, and have been operated on a stabilized basis, since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table summarizes the historical operating results of these 1,899 facilities (117.5 million net rentable square feet) that represent approximately 93% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our U.S. consolidated self storage portfolio at December 31, 2009. SAME STORE FACILITIES Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change Revenues: (Dollar amounts in thousands, except weighted average amounts) Rental income $ 1,324,747 $ 1,375,484 (3.7 )% $ 1,375,484 $ 1,339,637 2.7 % Late charges and admin fees collected 64,768 60,146 7.7 % 60,146 57,121 5.3 % Total revenues (a) 1,389,515 1,435,630 (3.2 )% 1,435,630 1,396,758 2.8 % Cost of operations: Property taxes 139,776 135,825 2.9 % 135,825 132,411 2.6 % Direct property payroll 94,262 94,303 0.0 % 94,303 93,152 1.2 % Media advertising 19,795 19,853 (0.3 )% 19,853 20,917 (5.1 )% Other advertising and promotion 20,079 18,235 10.1 % 18,235 18,778 (2.9 )% Utilities 34,636 36,411 (4.9 )% 36,411 35,094 3.8 % Repairs and maintenance 38,356 42,696 (10.2 )% 42,696 43,332 (1.5 )% Telephone reservation center 11,040 12,580 (12.2 )% 12,580 12,642 (0.5 )% Property insurance 9,761 11,391 (14.3 )% 11,391 13,498 (15.6 )% Other cost of management 86,908 91,502 (5.0 )% 91,502 89,744 2.0 % Total cost of operations (a) 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Net operating income (b) 934,902 972,834 (3.9 )% 972,834 937,190 3.8 % Depreciation and amortization expense (c) (301,647 ) (344,905 ) (12.5 )% (344,905 ) (447,245 ) (22.9 )% Net income $ 633,255 $ 627,929 0.8 % $ 627,929 $ 489,945 28.2 % Gross margin (before depreciation and amortization expense) 67.3 % 67.8 % (0.7 )% 67.8 % 67.1 % 1.0 % Weighted average for the period: Square foot occupancy (d) 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (e)(f) $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % REVPAF (f)(g) $ 11.28 $ 11.71 (3.7 )% $ 11.71 $ 11.40 2.7 % Weighted average at December 31: Square foot occupancy 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.9 % (0.9 )% In place annual rent per occupied square foot (h) $ 13.46 $ 14.02 (4.0 )% $ 14.02 $ 13.89 0.9 % Total net rentable square feet (in thousands) 117,462 117,462 117,462 117,462 Number of facilities 1,899 1,899 1,899 1,899 (a) Revenues and cost of operations do not include ancillary revenues and expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance, retail sales and truck rentals. Other costs of management included in cost of operations principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of the facilities. Indirect costs principally include supervisory costs and corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the facilities. (b) See Net Operating Income above. (c) Depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 decreased, as compared to the year prior, primarily due to a reduction in amortization expense related to intangible assets that we obtained in the Shurgard Merger. 35 (d) Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period. (e) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. (f) Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (g) Realized annual rent per available foot or REVPAF is computed by dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the total available net rentable square feet for the period. (h) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities decreased approximately 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. This decrease was primarily caused by lower rental income as a result of lower average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with lower average occupancy levels. For 2009, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.8% lower and average occupancy levels were 0.9% lower as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 3.7% reduction in rental income. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities increased approximately 2.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. This increase was primarily caused by higher rental income as a result of higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with higher average occupancy levels. For 2008, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.4% higher and average occupancy levels were 0.2% higher as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 2.7% increase in rental income. Our operating strategy is to maintain occupancy levels for our Same Store facilities at approximately 90% throughout the year. In order to achieve this strategy, we adjusted rental rates and promotional discounts offered to new tenants as well as the frequency of television advertising, increasing or decreasing each, depending on traffic patterns of new tenants renting space offset by existing tenants vacating. We experience seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Consequently, rates charged new tenants are typically higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Over the past two years, demand for self storage space has been negatively impacted by recessionary pressures, including increased unemployment, reduced housing sales, and reduced moving activity, in each of the markets in which we operate. As indicated in the table below, during the first three quarters of 2008, we generated relatively strong year over year revenue growth. Beginning in September 2008, we began to experience a notable decline in year over year move ins that continued through October 2008, which we believe reflected general economic conditions. To offset the decline in new rentals, we significantly reduced rental rates, increased promotional discounts to new incoming tenants, and increased marketing efforts. We believe these actions have stabilized move in volumes on a year over year basis; however, we have not yet been able to restore rental rates to the levels experienced in the prior year. We believe overall demand for self storage space in virtually all of our markets in which we operate has decreased due to current economic conditions, and coupled with an increase in the number of self storage operators over the past 10 years, will continue to foster a very difficult operating environment, at least in the near term. In addition, increased move out activity beginning in August 2008 exacerbated the downward pressure on occupancy levels created by reduced demand. In March 2009, the increase in move out activity began to subside to more normalized levels. 36 Same Store Year over Year Change Three Months Ended: Rental income Realized rent per occupied square foot Square foot occupancy March 31, 2008 3.4 % 3.0 % 0.3 % June 30, 2008 3.4 % 3.0 % 0.4 % September 30, 2008 2.5 % 1.9 % 0.6 % December 31, 2008 1.5 % 1.9 % (0.5 )% For entire year: 2008 2.7 % 2.4 % 0.2 % March 31, 2009 (1.2 )% (0.2 )% (1.0 )% June 30, 2009 (4.0 )% (2.9 )% (1.1 )% September 30, 2009 (5.2 )% (4.2 )% (1.0 )% December 31, 2009 (4.3 )% (3.8 )% (0.5 )% For entire year: 2009 (3.7 )% (2.8 )% (0.9 )% Based upon our evaluation of certain comparative key operating metrics as of December 31, 2009, we believe that revenue for the three months ending March 31, 2010 will be lower than the same period in 2009. Our operating strategy will be to continue to focus on maintaining occupancy levels by adjusting rental rates, promotional discounts and marketing activities. It is unclear to us how much the above mentioned factors will impact our revenues beyond the first quarter of 2010. From a geographic standpoint, we are experiencing the greatest year over year revenue declines in our Southeast markets, located in North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, as well as the West Coast, which includes Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and Los Angeles. See Analysis of Regional Trends table that follows. Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization) decreased by 1.8% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased by 0.7% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 was due to reduced utilities, repairs and maintenance, telephone reservation center, property insurance and other cost of management which were offset in part by increases in property taxes and other advertising and promotion expenses. The small increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 was due primarily to higher property tax and utilities expenses which were partially offset by lower property insurance expense. Property tax expense increased 2.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and 2.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These increases are primarily due to increases in assessments of property values and to a lesser degree increases in tax rates. We expect property tax expense growth of approximately 3.5% in 2010. Direct property payroll expense was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and increased by 1.2% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 reflects higher hours incurred due to adjustments in staffing levels, offset by lower incentive pay and stagnant growth in average wage rates. For 2010, we expect moderate growth trends in payroll. Media advertising for the Same Store Facilities was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and decreased 5.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Media advertising primarily includes the cost of advertising on television and will vary depending on a number of factors, including our occupancy levels and demand. Other advertising and promotion is comprised principally of yellow page and internet advertising, which increased 10.1% during 2009 as compared to 2008, and decreased 2.9% during 2008 as compared to 2007. Our future spending on yellow page, media, and internet advertising expenditures will be driven in part by demand for our self storage spaces, our current occupancy levels, and the relative efficacy of each type of advertising. Media advertising in particular can be volatile and increase or decrease significantly in the short term. 37 Utility expenses decreased 4.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased 3.8% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 was due primarily to higher electrical costs, which we believe in part was caused by rapid increase in energy prices, and in particular oil, used by local utility companies to produce electricity during 2008. Similarly, the decrease utility expense experienced in 2009, was due primarily to reduced year over year energy prices. It is difficult to estimate future utility cost levels because utility costs are dependent upon changes in demand driven by weather and temperature, as well as fuel prices, both of which are volatile and not predictable. Repairs and maintenance expenditures decreased 10.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 1.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Repairs and maintenance expenditures are dependent upon several factors, such as weather, the timing of periodic needs throughout our portfolio, inflation, and random events and accordingly are difficult to project from year to year. Due to severe weather, we expect snow removal expenses to be approximately $2 million higher in the three months ending March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. However, we expect overall repairs and maintenance expenditures to grow moderately in 2010. Telephone reservation center costs decreased 12.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and were flat in 2008 compared to 2007. The reduction in 2009 was primarily due to lower call volumes, resulting in less staffing hours, as well as a shift from our California to our Arizona call center, resulting in lower average compensation rates. We expect future increases in our telephone reservation center to be based primarily upon general inflation. Insurance expense decreased 14.3% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 15.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These declines reflect significant decreases in property insurance resulting primarily from the softer insurance markets as lack of hurricane activity and additional competition from insurance providers has benefited us. We expect insurance expense to be down slightly in 2010 as compared to 2009. 38 The following table summarizes selected quarterly financial data with respect to the Same Store Facilities: For the Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Entire Year (Amounts in thousands, except for per square foot amount) Total revenues: 2009 $ 347,185 $ 346,839 $ 352,121 $ 343,370 $ 1,389,515 2008 $ 349,991 $ 359,461 $ 368,976 $ 357,202 $ 1,435,630 2007 $ 338,454 $ 347,468 $ 359,627 $ 351,209 $ 1,396,758 Total cost of operations: 2009 $ 125,007 $ 116,426 $ 113,286 $ 99,894 $ 454,613 2008 $ 123,856 $ 120,526 $ 113,972 $ 104,442 $ 462,796 2007 $ 118,916 $ 118,985 $ 115,176 $ 106,491 $ 459,568 Property tax expense: 2009 $ 37,762 $ 36,659 $ 37,137 $ 28,218 $ 139,776 2008 $ 36,349 $ 35,156 $ 36,161 $ 28,159 $ 135,825 2007 $ 34,793 $ 33,682 $ 34,969 $ 28,967 $ 132,411 Media advertising expense: 2009 $ 8,158 $ 7,224 $ 3,430 $ 983 $ 19,795 2008 $ 6,947 $ 9,836 $ 2,148 $ 922 $ 19,853 2007 $ 5,287 $ 8,388 $ 4,409 $ 2,833 $ 20,917 Other advertising and promotion expense: 2009 $ 4,614 $ 5,967 $ 4,942 $ 4,556 $ 20,079 2008 $ 4,426 $ 5,027 $ 4,645 $ 4,137 $ 18,235 2007 $ 4,956 $ 5,342 $ 4,457 $ 4,023 $ 18,778 REVPAF: 2009 $ 11.29 $ 11.27 $ 11.41 $ 11.15 $ 11.28 2008 $ 11.43 $ 11.74 $ 12.03 $ 11.65 $ 11.71 2007 $ 11.05 $ 11.35 $ 11.74 $ 11.48 $ 11.40 Weighted average realized annual rent per occupied square foot (a): 2009 $ 12.84 $ 12.52 $ 12.73 $ 12.76 $ 12.71 2008 $ 12.87 $ 12.90 $ 13.29 $ 13.27 $ 13.08 2007 $ 12.49 $ 12.53 $ 13.04 $ 13.02 $ 12.77 Weighted average occupancy levels for the period (a): 2009 87.9 % 90.0 % 89.6 % 87.4 % 88.7 % 2008 88.8 % 91.0 % 90.5 % 87.8 % 89.5 % 2007 88.5 % 90.6 % 90.0 % 88.2 % 89.3 % 39 Analysis of Regional Trends The following table sets forth regional trends in our Same Store Facilities: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data) Same Store Facilities Operating Trends by Region Revenues: Southern California (176 facilities) $ 203,794 $ 212,556 (4.1 )% $ 212,556 $ 205,142 3.6 % Northern California (167 facilities) 149,043 154,064 (3.3 )% 154,064 146,872 4.9 % Texas (231 facilities) 139,614 141,155 (1.1 )% 141,155 135,513 4.2 % Florida (182 facilities) 134,104 141,601 (5.3 )% 141,601 144,071 (1.7 )% Illinois (119 facilities) 87,837 90,283 (2.7 )% 90,283 86,513 4.4 % Washington (88 facilities) 71,292 75,036 (5.0 )% 75,036 73,284 2.4 % Georgia (86 facilities) 48,466 51,381 (5.7 )% 51,381 51,008 0.7 % All other states (850 facilities) 555,365 569,554 (2.5 )% 569,554 554,355 2.7 % Total revenues 1,389,515 1,435,630 (3.2 )% 1,435,630 1,396,758 2.8 % Cost of operations: Southern California 45,304 44,938 0.8 % 44,938 45,328 (0.9 )% Northern California 39,400 40,047 (1.6 )% 40,047 40,786 (1.8 )% Texas 53,657 54,827 (2.1 )% 54,827 53,968 1.6 % Florida 46,110 48,454 (4.8 )% 48,454 48,167 0.6 % Illinois 39,185 37,774 3.7 % 37,774 38,410 (1.7 )% Washington 17,749 17,743 0.0 % 17,743 17,371 2.1 % Georgia 16,607 17,027 (2.5 )% 17,027 16,593 2.6 % All other states 196,601 201,986 (2.7 )% 201,986 198,945 1.5 % Total cost of operations 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Net operating income (a): Southern California 158,490 167,618 (5.4 )% 167,618 159,814 4.9 % Northern California 109,643 114,017 (3.8 )% 114,017 106,086 7.5 % Texas 85,957 86,328 (0.4 )% 86,328 81,545 5.9 % Florida 87,994 93,147 (5.5 )% 93,147 95,904 (2.9 )% Illinois 48,652 52,509 (7.3 )% 52,509 48,103 9.2 % Washington 53,543 57,293 (6.5 )% 57,293 55,913 2.5 % Georgia 31,859 34,354 (7.3 )% 34,354 34,415 (0.2 )% All other states 358,764 367,568 (2.4 )% 367,568 355,410 3.4 % Total net operating income $ 934,902 $ 972,834 (3.9 )% $ 972,834 $ 937,190 3.8 % Weighted average occupancy: Southern California 89.9 % 90.3 % (0.4 )% 90.3 % 90.0 % 0.3 % Northern California 88.9 % 89.8 % (1.0 )% 89.8 % 89.0 % 0.9 % Texas 88.9 % 90.4 % (1.7 )% 90.4 % 90.2 % 0.2 % Florida 88.6 % 89.0 % (0.4 )% 89.0 % 88.4 % 0.7 % Illinois 88.0 % 88.8 % (0.9 )% 88.8 % 88.3 % 0.6 % Washington 88.9 % 89.7 % (0.9 )% 89.7 % 90.6 % (1.0 )% Georgia 87.4 % 88.8 % (1.6 )% 88.8 % 90.0 % (1.3 )% All other states 88.6 % 89.3 % (0.8 )% 89.3 % 89.1 % 0.2 % Total weighted average occupancy 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % 40 Same Store Facilities Operating Trends by Region (Continued) Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (a): Southern California $ 18.78 $ 19.52 (3.8 )% $ 19.52 $ 18.91 3.2 % Northern California 16.77 17.16 (2.3 )% 17.16 16.49 4.1 % Texas 9.95 9.97 (0.2 )% 9.97 9.62 3.6 % Florida 12.12 12.87 (5.8 )% 12.87 13.24 (2.8 )% Illinois 12.93 13.24 (2.3 )% 13.24 12.75 3.8 % Washington 13.67 14.32 (4.5 )% 14.32 14.02 2.1 % Georgia 9.64 10.16 (5.1 )% 10.16 9.97 1.9 % All other states 11.67 11.95 (2.3 )% 11.95 11.69 2.2 % Total realized rent per square foot $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % REVPAF (a): Southern California $ 16.88 $ 17.62 (4.2 )% $ 17.62 $ 17.03 3.5 % Northern California 14.91 15.41 (3.2 )% 15.41 14.68 5.0 % Texas 8.85 9.01 (1.8 )% 9.01 8.67 3.9 % Florida 10.74 11.46 (6.3 )% 11.46 11.71 (2.1 )% Illinois 11.38 11.76 (3.2 )% 11.76 11.26 4.4 % Washington 12.15 12.84 (5.4 )% 12.84 12.70 1.1 % Georgia 8.43 9.03 (6.6 )% 9.03 8.97 0.7 % All other states 10.35 10.67 (3.0 )% 10.67 10.42 2.4 % Total REVPAF $ 11.28 $ 11.71 (3.7 )% $ 11.71 $ 11.40 2.7 % (a) See Same Store Facilities table above for further information regarding these measures, which represent or are derived from non GAAP measures. We believe that our geographic diversification and scale provide some insulation from localized economic effects and add to the stability of our cash flows. It is difficult to predict localized trends in short term self storage demand and operating results. We believe that each market has been negatively impacted to some degree by general economic trends and may continue to experience negative operating trends until such time that general economic trends improve. 41 Other Facilities In addition to the Same Store facilities, at December 31, 2009, we had an additional 92 self storage facilities. These facilities include recently acquired facilities, recently developed facilities and facilities that were recently expanded by adding additional storage units. In general, these facilities are not stabilized with respect to occupancies or rental rates. As a result of the fill up process and timing of when the facilities were put into place, year over year changes can be significant. Rental income, cost of operations, depreciation, net operating income, weighted average square foot occupancies and realized rents per square foot in the table above represent the operating results following the date each particular facility began to be included in our consolidated operating results, and in the case of acquired facilities, do not include any operating results prior to our acquisition of these facilities. In 2009, we completed one newly developed facility with 64,000 net rentable square feet at a total cost of $11.9 million and four expansion projects to existing real estate facilities (76,000 net rentable square feet) for an aggregate cost of $19.1 million, and did not acquire any new properties. Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process of filling up to stabilized occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able to leverage off of our operating strategies and improve the occupancy levels of the facilities or, with respect to the newly developed facilities, we have been able to accelerate the fill up pace. We expect that the Other Facilities will continue to provide earnings growth during 2010, though at a lower level of growth than that experienced in 2009 and 2008, as these facilities reach stabilization. However, the Other Facilities are subject to the same occupancy and rate pressures that our Same Store facilities are facing, and accordingly the pace at which these facilities reach stabilization, and the ultimate level of cash flows to be reached upon stabilization, may be negatively impacted by the current economic trends. Because of reduced self storage demand, and our belief that our capital could be put to use in a more advantageous manner, our development activities throughout 2009 have been nominal, and we have a nominal pipeline of new development at December 31, 2009. It is unclear when we might change our strategy with respect to development activities. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the storage industry. We believe that there may be more opportunities for the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether the banks and other lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which would force a sale of the properties of these distressed owners, rather than extending existing loans or waiving covenant violations. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders desire to extend these loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. 42 Equity in earnings of real estate entities At December 31, 2009, we have equity investments in PSB, Shurgard Europe and five affiliated limited partnerships. Due to our limited ownership interest and limited control of these entities, we do not consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and account for such investments using the equity method. Equity in earnings of real estate entities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, consists of our pro rata share of the net income of these Unconsolidated Entities based upon our ownership interest for the period. The following table sets forth the significant components of equity in earnings of real estate entities. Amounts with respect to PSB, Shurgard Europe, and Other Investments are included in our Commercial segment, Europe Self Storage segment, and other items not allocated to segments, respectively, as described in Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Historical summary: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands) Net operating income (1): PSB $ 81,525 $ 89,067 $ (7,542 ) $ 89,067 $ 82,279 $ 6,788 Shurgard Europe 46,374 38,785 7,589 38,785 38,785 Other Investments 2,713 4,626 (1,913 ) 4,626 4,878 (252 ) 130,612 132,478 (1,866 ) 132,478 87,157 45,321 Depreciation: PSB (37,167 ) (45,422 ) 8,255 (45,422 ) (43,316 ) (2,106 ) Shurgard Europe (24,498 ) (27,578 ) 3,080 (27,578 ) (27,578 ) Other Investments (806 ) (1,918 ) 1,112 (1,918 ) (1,991 ) 73 (62,471 ) (74,918 ) 12,447 (74,918 ) (45,307 ) (29,611 ) Other:(2): PSB (3) (9,250 ) (29,320 ) 20,070 (29,320 ) (28,461 ) (859 ) Shurgard Europe (5,607 ) (7,073 ) 1,466 (7,073 ) (7,073 ) Other Investments (40 ) (776 ) 736 (776 ) (651 ) (125 ) (14,897 ) (37,169 ) 22,272 (37,169 ) (29,112 ) (8,057 ) Total equity in earnings of real estate entities: PSB 35,108 14,325 20,783 14,325 10,502 3,823 Shurgard Europe 16,269 4,134 12,135 4,134 4,134 Other Investments 1,867 1,932 (65 ) 1,932 2,236 (304 ) $ 53,244 $ 20,391 $ 32,853 $ 20,391 $ 12,738 $ 7,653 (1) These amounts represent our pro rata share of the net operating income of the Unconsolidated Entities. See also net operating income above for a discussion of this non GAAP measure. (2) Other reflects our share of general and administrative expense, interest expense, interest income, gains on sale of real estate assets, and other non property; non depreciation related operating results of these entities. (3) Includes our pro rata share of benefit totaling $16.3 million and $1.9 million from PSBs preferred stock and preferred unit repurchases for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Investment in PSB: At December 31, we have a 41% common equity interest in PSB (46% as of December 31, 2008), comprised of our ownership of 5,801,606 shares of PSBs common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in PSBs underlying operating partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one for one basis into PSB common stock. Our ownership interest was reduced during 2009 as PSB sold 3,833,333 shares of its common stock, of which we purchased 383,333 shares or 10% of the shares issued. 43 At December 31 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states. PSB also manages commercial space owned by the Company and affiliated entities at December 31, 2009 pursuant to property management agreements. Equity in earnings from PSB increased to $35,108,000 in 2009 as compared to $14,325,000 in 2008. This increase was primarily the result of recognizing our pro rata share, $16.3 million, of the benefit that PSB recognized during 2009 as a result of PSBs preferred stock and preferred partnership unit repurchases combined with our $8.3 million pro rata share of reduced depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by our $7.5 million pro rata share of reduced property net operating income. The reduction in property net operating income is primarily the result of reduced property revenues at PSBs facilities due to a 3.2% decline in the weighted average occupancy level for 2009 as compared to 2008. Our future equity income from PSB will be dependent entirely upon PSBs operating results. Our investment in PSB provides us with some diversification into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB. PSBs filings and selected financial information can be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information on PSB. Investment in Shurgard Europe: As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, due to our March 31, 2008 disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe, beginning for periods after March 31, 2008 we no longer consolidate the revenues and expenses of Shurgard Europe on our consolidated statements of income, and our pro rata share of the operating results of Shurgard Europe is included in equity in earnings of real estate entities. Selected financial data for Shurgard Europe for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is included in Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. We originally acquired our 100% interest in Shurgard Europe during our merger with Shurgard, which occurred in August 2006. Our primary objective for merging with Shurgard was to acquire Shurgards U.S. domestic assets which accounted for approximately 487 facilities in the U.S. as compared to 160 facilities in Europe at the time of the Shurgard Merger. Subsequent to the Shurgard Merger, management of Public Storage determined that it was in our best interests to reduce our investment in Shurgard Europe. There were many reasons for that determination, most relating to the fact that continued growth of Shurgard Europe would require a significant capital commitment. Movement of capital from Public Storage (in the U.S.) to various European countries would have exposed Public Storage to currency fluctuation risks and to potential tax burdens when Public Storage wished to repatriate its capital investment. Accordingly, in March 2008, we sold 51% of our ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, which helped to limit our capital requirements to continue to grow Shurgard Europe and to limit our exposure to other risks of owning operations in foreign countries. We do not intend to sell any of our remaining interest in Shurgard Europe. In the future, we expect Shurgard Europe to function as a stand alone entity and to fund its capital requirements primarily with its retained operating cash flow, bank borrowings and, to the extent available, public or private equity. This transaction has resulted in the operations of Shurgard Europe having a less significant impact on our operating results, as we have a 49% interest and a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe upon which we receive interest income, rather than the 100% equity interest in Shurgard Europe we held prior to the transaction. Our future operating results will also be impacted by the ultimate returns realized on the reinvestment of the cash proceeds received in connection with this transaction, including the proceeds from the collection of the loan receivable and the timing thereof. At December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europes operations comprise 187 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet. The portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest. Our equity in earnings from Shurgard Europe is comprised of our 49% equity share in the net income of Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of the interest earned with respect to the note receivable from Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, which are reclassified in consolidation from interest income to equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe. The amount of interest reclassified was approximately $23.9 million in 2009, $17.8 million in 2008 and none in 2007. 44 Equity in earnings from our investment in Shurgard Europe for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $16,269,000 compared to $4,134,000 for the same period in 2008, representing an increase of $12,135,000. This increase includes i) a reduction in our pro rata share of Shurgard Europes depreciation expense, primarily due to declines in tenant intangible amortization, ii) our pro rata share of a reduction in Shurgard Europes third party interest expense (joint ventures in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest recently refinanced their outstanding debt at substantially lower interest rates), (iii) the timing of our disposition of the 51% interest in Shurgard Europe as equity in earnings for 2008 only includes amounts for the period of April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 while the 2009 includes amounts for the entire year, offset by iv) our pro rata share of Shurgard Europes same store properties decline in net operating income, on a constant exchange rate basis, and (v) the effect of a change in the average exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar to 1.393 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 1.470 for the same period in 2008. We evaluate the performance metrics of Shurgard Europes Same Store Facilities in order to evaluate the performance of our investment in Shurgard Europe, because the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent the primary driver of our pro rata share of earnings of Shurgard Europe. The Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent those 94 facilities that are stabilized and owned since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table reflects the operating results of these 94 facilities. Selected Operating Data for the 94 facilities operated by Shurgard Europe on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007 (Europe Same Store Facilities): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change (Dollar amounts in thousands, except weighted average data, utilizing constant exchange rates) (a) (b) Revenues: Rental income $ 115,785 $ 120,030 (3.5 )% $ 120,030 $ 118,578 1.2 % Late charges and administrative fees collected 1,892 2,018 (6.2 )% 2,018 1,198 68.4 % Total revenues 117,677 122,048 (3.6 )% 122,048 119,776 1.9 % Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization expense): Property taxes 5,661 5,659 0.0 % 5,659 5,485 3.2 % Direct property payroll 13,767 13,852 (0.6 )% 13,852 14,033 (1.3 )% Advertising and promotion 4,662 3,579 30.3 % 3,579 3,772 (5.1 )% Utilities 2,849 2,846 0.1 % 2,846 2,826 0.7 % Repairs and maintenance 3,157 3,353 (5.8 )% 3,353 3,207 4.6 % Property insurance 711 760 (6.4 )% 760 1,131 (32.8 )% Other costs of management 16,902 16,490 2.5 % 16,490 17,636 (6.5 )% Total cost of operations 47,709 46,539 2.5 % 46,539 48,090 (3.2 )% Net operating income (c) $ 69,968 $ 75,509 (7.3 )% $ 75,509 $ 71,686 5.3 % Gross margin 59.5 % 61.9 % (3.9 )% 61.9 % 59.9 % 3.3 % Weighted average for the period: Square foot occupancy (d) 86.1 % 86.9 % (0.9 )% 86.9 % 89.7 % (3.1 )% Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (e)(f) $ 26.06 $ 26.77 (2.7 )% $ 26.77 $ 25.62 4.5 % REVPAF (f)(g) $ 22.44 $ 23.26 (3.5 )% $ 23.26 $ 22.98 1.2 % Weighted average at December 31: Square foot occupancy 85.7 % 84.7 % 1.2 % 84.7 % 88.5 % (4.3 )% In place annual rent per occupied square foot (h) $ 30.03 $ 30.32 (1.0 )% $ 30.32 $ 29.93 1.3 % Total net rentable square feet (in thousands) 5,160 5,160 5,160 5,160 Average Euro to the U.S. Dollar: (a) Constant exchange rates used herein 1.393 1.393 1.393 1.393 Actual historical exchange rates 1.393 1.470 (5.2 )% 1.470 1.370 7.3 % 45 (a) In order to isolate changes in the underlying operations from the impact of exchange rates, the amounts in this table are presented on a constant exchange rate basis. The amounts for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been restated using the actual exchange rate for 2009. The exchange rate for the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar averaged 1.393 during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 1.470 and 1.370 for the same periods in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (b) Only the amounts for periods before March 31, 2008 are included in our consolidated financial statements. We include our pro rata share of these operating results for periods after March 31, 2008 in Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities. The amounts incorporated in our financial statements, either consolidated or equity method amounts, are based upon the actual weighted average exchange rates for each period. (c) We present net operating income NOI of the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities, which is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization is a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, segment performance, and comparing period to period and market to market property operating results. In addition, the investment community utilizes NOI in determining real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization in evaluating our operating results. (d) Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period. (e) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. (f) Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (g) Realized annual rent per available foot or REVPAF is computed by dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the total available net rentable square feet for the period. (h) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Shurgard Europes operations have been impacted by the same trends in self storage demand that our domestic facilities are facing. However, trends in Europe improved somewhat in the last half of 2009, with year over year revenue declines of 1.9% in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 3.2% in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and 4.7% in the first half of 2009. Despite the recent improved trends and reduced year over year declines in revenues and net operating income, we expect continued year over year declines in revenues during at least the first quarter of 2010. Shurgard Europe, similar to our Domestic Self Storage segment, has a nominal development pipeline. Accordingly, at least in the short term, we do not expect any significant impact to our earnings from Shurgard Europes development activities. In Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, we disclose Shurgard Europes consolidated operating results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Shurgard Europes condensed consolidated operating results include additional facilities that are not Europe Same Store Facilities, and are based upon historical exchange rates rather than constant exchange rates for each of the respective periods. Other Investments: The Other Investments at December 31, 2009 are comprised primarily of our equity in earnings from various limited partnerships that collectively own 19 self storage facilities. Amounts included in the tables above also include our equity in earnings with respect to three facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities, until we acquired the remaining interest we did not own in these entities during 2008, and commenced consolidating these facilities. Our future earnings with respect to the Other Investments will be dependent upon the operating results of the facilities that these entities own. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for the operating results of these 19 facilities under the Other Investments. 46 Ancillary Operations Ancillary revenues and expenses include amounts associated with (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self storage facilities in the U.S., (ii) merchandise sales in the U.S., (iii) commercial property operations, (iv) merchandise sales and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe, and (v) management of facilities for third parties and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities. Commercial property operations are included in our Commercial segment, and the merchandise and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe are included in our Europe Self Storage segment. All other ancillary revenues and costs of operations are not allocated to any segment. See Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our segments and for a reconciliation of these ancillary revenues and cost of operations to our net income. During 2009, we decided to discontinue the operations of our truck rental and containerized businesses. Accordingly, the revenues and expenses of these operations are included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The following table sets forth our ancillary operations as presented on our consolidated statements of income. Year Ended December 31 Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands) Ancillary Revenues: Tenant reinsurance premiums $ 62,644 $ 57,280 $ 5,364 $ 57,280 $ 50,861 $ 6,419 Commercial 14,982 15,326 (344 ) 15,326 15,101 225 Merchandise and other 29,971 30,902 (931 ) 30,902 32,029 (1,127 ) Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant insurance 4,913 (4,913 ) 4,913 17,490 (12,577 ) Total revenues 107,597 108,421 (824 ) 108,421 115,481 (7,060 ) Ancillary Cost of operations: Tenant reinsurance 9,789 6,734 3,055 6,734 15,879 (9,145 ) Commercial 5,759 6,292 (533 ) 6,292 5,722 570 Merchandise and other 20,463 22,093 (1,630 ) 22,093 25,174 (3,081 ) Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant insurance 1,409 (1,409 ) 1,409 5,186 (3,777 ) Total cost of operations 36,011 36,528 (517 ) 36,528 51,961 (15,433 ) Depreciation commercial operations: 2,958 2,900 58 2,900 2,570 330 Ancillary net income: Tenant reinsurance 52,855 50,546 2,309 50,546 34,982 15,564 Commercial 6,265 6,134 131 6,134 6,809 (675 ) Merchandise and other 9,508 8,809 699 8,809 6,855 1,954 Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant reinsurance 3,504 (3,504 ) 3,504 12,304 (8,800 ) Total ancillary net income $ 68,628 $ 68,993 $ (365 ) $ 68,993 $ 60,950 $ 8,043 Tenant reinsurance operations: We reinsure policies offered through a non affiliated insurance company against losses to goods stored by tenants, primarily in our domestic self storage facilities. The revenues that we record are based upon premiums that we reinsure. Cost of operations primarily includes claims paid that are not covered by our outside third party insurers, as well as claims adjustment expenses. Cost of operations includes reductions of $2.0 million and $5.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing adjustments to accounting estimates that are not expected to recur. 47 The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues over the past year was attributable to higher rates combined with an increase in the percentage of our existing tenants retaining such policies. Approximately 58% and 53% of our tenants had such policies at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that the level of tenant reinsurance revenues in 2010 may not increase to the same degree as was experienced in 2009 as customer penetration reaches the percentage of tenants that could be expected to retain such policies. The future level of tenant reinsurance revenues is largely dependent upon the number of new tenants electing to purchase policies, the level of premiums charged for such insurance, and the number of tenants that continue participating in the insurance program. Future cost of operations will be dependent primarily upon the level of losses incurred, including the level of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, that occur and affect our properties thereby increasing tenant insurance claims. Commercial operations: We also operate commercial facilities, primarily small storefronts and office space located on or near our existing self storage facilities that are rented to third parties. We do not expect any significant changes in revenues or profitability from our commercial operations. Merchandise sales and other: We sell locks, boxes, and packing supplies at the self storage facilities that we operate. The primary factor impacting the level of merchandise sales is the level of customer traffic at our self storage facilities, including the level of move ins. In addition, to a much lesser extent, we also manage self storage facilities within our existing management infrastructure, for third party owners as well as for the Unconsolidated Entities. Other Income and Expense Items Interest and other income: Interest and other income was $29,813,000 in 2009, $36,155,000 in 2008, and $11,417,000 in 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 is principally due to lower interest income on our cash reserve balances, offset by higher interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe (described below). Interest earned on our cash balances totaled $5.0 million in 2009 as compared to $17.7 million in 2008. This reduction was due primarily to significantly lower interest rates in 2009 as compared to 2008. We have $763.8 million in cash on hand at December 31, 2009 invested primarily in money market funds. Future interest income will depend upon the level of interest rates and the timing of when the cash on hand is ultimately invested; however, based upon current interest rates on our outstanding money market fund investments of approximately 0.2%, earned interest is expected to be minimal. We have a loan receivable, denominated in Euros, from Shurgard Europe totaling 391.9 million ($561.7 million) as of December 31, 2009. Effective October 31, 2009, we extended the maturity date to March 31, 2013, and the rate of interest increased from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum (effective November 1, 2009). In addition, we receive trademark license fees from Shurgard Europe. We recorded interest income with respect to this loan, representing 51% of the amount earned (the remaining 49% is recorded as additional equity in earnings) combined with 51% of the trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, aggregating $24.8 million and $18.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. No interest income in connection with the loan or trademark fees was recorded prior to March 31, 2008, as any such income received was fully eliminated in consolidation until March 31, 2008. All other variances in interest income from our note receivable are attributable principally to changes in average exchange rates as well as the change in interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% effective November 1, 2009. Future interest income recorded in connection with this loan will be dependent upon the average outstanding balance as well as the exchange rate of the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar. All such interest has been paid currently when due and we expect the interest to continue to be paid when due with Shurgard Europes operating cash flow. 48 Interest and other income increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 principally as a result of (i) higher average cash balances invested in interest bearing accounts and (ii) interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe. Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation and amortization expense was $340,233,000, $411,981,000 and $619,598,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decreases in depreciation and amortization expense in 2009 as compared to 2008, and in 2008 as compared to 2007, are due principally to declines in amortization of tenant intangible assets that were acquired in connection with the 2006 Shurgard Merger. Amortization expense with respect to tenant intangible assets was $5,530,000 in 2009, $51,158,000 in 2008 and $247,844,000 in 2007. We expect minimal amortization expense for our existing intangibles during 2010, and future intangible amortization will be dependent upon our future level of acquisition of facilities with existing tenants in place. Effective March 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization ceased on the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe, which was deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. Included in our depreciation and amortization related to Shurgard Europes facilities was $11,192,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and $52,460,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007. General and administrative expense: General and administrative expense was $35,735,000, $62,809,000, and $59,749,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. General and administrative expense principally consists of state income taxes, investor relations expenses, and corporate and executive salaries. In addition, general and administrative expenses includes expenses that vary depending on our activity levels in certain areas, such as overhead associated with the acquisition and development of real estate facilities, certain expenses related to capital raising and merger and acquisition activities, litigation expenditures, employee severance, share based compensation, and incentive compensation. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes $2,144,000 in ongoing general and administrative expense for Shurgard Europe incurred prior to March 31, 2008 and $27,900,000 in additional incentive compensation incurred related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes a) $10,691,000 related to Shurgard Europes ongoing operations, b) $9,600,000 in costs incurred by Shurgard Europe associated with a proposed terminated offering of shares in Shurgard Europe, c) $5,300,000 incurred in connection with the integration of Shurgard and Public Storage, and d) $2,000,000 in costs associated with reorganizing as a Maryland REIT. Following March 31, 2008, we record no further general and administrative expense incurred by Shurgard Europes ongoing operations. We expect ongoing general and administrative expense to approximate $8 million to $10 million per quarter. Interest expense: Interest expense was $29,916,000, $43,944,000 and $63,671,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decreases in interest expense in 2009 and 2008 are due primarily to the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective March 31, 2008, which incurred $6,892,000 and $22,242,000 in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively. Interest expense was also reduced approximately $6 million in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to our early retirement in February 2009 of $110.2 million face amount of senior unsecured debt. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for a schedule of our notes payable balances, principal repayment requirements, and average interest rates. Capitalized interest expense totaled $718,000, $1,998,000 and $4,746,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in connection with our development activities. Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss): Our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe is denominated in Euros and we have not entered into any hedged agreements to mitigate the impact of currency exchange fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro. As a result, the amount of U.S. Dollars we will receive on repayment will depend upon the currency exchange rates at that time. In each period where we expect repatriation of these funds within two years from period end, we record the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan balance from the beginning to the end of the period as a foreign currency gain or loss. We recorded a foreign exchange gain of $9,662,000, a loss of $25,362,000, and a gain of $58,444,000 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, representing the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan due to changes in exchange rates from the beginning to the end of each respective period. The U.S. Dollar exchange rate relative to the Euro was approximately 1.433, 1.409, and 1.472 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 49 Future foreign exchange gains or losses will be dependent primarily upon the movement of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar, the amount owed from Shurgard Europe and our continued expectation with respect to repaying the loan. Discontinued Operations: During 2009, we discontinued operations in our truck rental and containerized storage businesses. In addition, we disposed of one self storage facility and expect to dispose of one other in connection with condemnation proceedings. We reclassified all of the historical revenues and expenses of these operations from revenues and expenses, into discontinued operations. Included in discontinued operations in 2009 are $3.5 million in truck disposal expenses, an $8.2 million impairment charge on intangible assets incurred in connection with an eminent domain proceeding and $6.0 million of gains on the disposition of the self storage facilities. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have $763.8 million of cash on hand at December 31, 2009, and believe that these funds, together with our internally generated net cash provided by our operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to meet our operating expenses, debt service requirements, capital improvements and distributions requirements to our shareholders for the foreseeable future. Operating as a REIT, our ability to retain cash flow for reinvestment is restricted. In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow must be distributed to our shareholders (see Requirement to Pay Distributions below). However, despite the significant distribution requirements, we have been able to retain a significant amount of our operating cash flow. The following table summarizes our ability to fund capital improvements to maintain our facilities, distributions to the noncontrolling interests, capital improvements to maintain our facilities, and distributions to our shareholders through the use of cash provided by operating activities. The remaining cash flow generated is available to make both scheduled and optional principal payments on debt and for reinvestment. For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Amount in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities (a) $ 1,112,857 $ 1,076,971 $ 1,047,652 Capital improvements to maintain our facilities (62,352 ) (76,311 ) (69,102 ) Remaining operating cash flow available for distributions to equity holders 1,050,505 1,000,660 978,550 Distributions paid to redeemable noncontrolling interests (1,290 ) (1,335 ) (1,092 ) Distribution paid to permanent noncontrolling equity interests (26,977 ) (37,993 ) (40,567 ) Cash from operations allocable to Public Storage shareholders 1,022,238 961,332 936,891 Distributions paid to Public Storage shareholders: Preferred shareholders (232,431 ) (239,721 ) (236,757 ) Equity Shares, Series A shareholders (20,524 ) (21,199 ) (21,424 ) Common shareholders ($2.20 per share for 2009, $2.20 per share regular dividend and $0.60 special dividend in 2008 and $2.00 per share for 2007) (370,404 ) (470,823 ) (338,689 ) Cash from operations available for principal payments on debt and reinvestment (b) $ 398,879 $ 229,589 $ 340,021 50 (a) Represents net cash provided by operating activities for each respective year as presented in our December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. (b) We present cash from operations for principal payments on debt and reinvestment because we believe it is an important measure to evaluate our ongoing liquidity. This measure is not a substitute for cash flows from operations or net cash flows in evaluating our liquidity, ability to repay our debt, or to meet our distribution requirements. Our financial profile is characterized by a low level of debt to total capitalization and a conservative dividend payout ratio with respect to the common shares. We expect to fund our long term growth strategies and debt obligations with (i) cash on hand at December 31, 2009, (ii) internally generated retained cash flows, (iii) depending upon current market conditions, proceeds from the issuance of equity securities, and (iv) in the case of acquisitions of facilities, the assumption of existing debt. In general, our strategy is to continue to finance our growth with permanent capital, either retained operating cash flow or capital raised through the issuance of common or preferred equity to the extent that market conditions are favorable. Historically, we have funded substantially all of our acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for the following reasons: (i) under the REIT structure, a significant amount of operating cash flow needs to be distributed to our shareholders, making it difficult to repay debt with operating cash flow alone, (ii) our perpetual preferred shares have no sinking fund requirement or maturity date and do not require redemption, all of which eliminate future refinancing risks, (iii) after the end of a non call period, we have the option to redeem the preferred shares at any time, which enables us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares with new preferred shares at lower rates if appropriate, (iv) preferred shares do not contain covenants, thus allowing us to maintain significant financial flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements. Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are Baa1 by Moodys and BBB by Standard & Poors. Access to Additional Capital: In addition to cash on hand, we also have a revolving line of credit for borrowings up to $300 million. The line of credit expires in March 2012 and there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit at February 26, 2010. We seldom borrow on the line of credit and generally view borrowings on the line as a means to bridge capital needs until we are able to refinance them with permanent capital. Our ability to raise additional capital by issuing our common or preferred securities may not be a viable option at least in the near term due to unfavorable capital market conditions. We are not dependent, however, on raising capital to fund our operations or meet our obligations. Significant requirements on our liquidity and capital resources include: (i) funds to redeem shares of Equity Shares, Series A on April 15, 2010, (ii) debt service requirements, (iii) capital improvements to maintain our facilities, (iv) distribution requirements to our shareholders to maintain our REIT status, (v) acquisition and development commitments and (vi) commitments to provide funding to Shurgard Europe for certain investing and financing activities. Redemption of Equity Shares, Series A: On April 15, 2010, we will be redeeming all of our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash redemption price of $24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2 million. Since the initial issuance of these securities, the annual distribution paid has been $2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield of 10%. We plan on using cash on hand to fund the aggregate redemption amount. 51 Debt Service Requirements: At December 31, 2009, outstanding debt totaled approximately $518.9 million. Approximate principal maturities are as follows (amounts in thousands): Unsecured debt Secured debt Total 2010 $ 1,673 $ 11,037 $ 12,710 2011 103,533 27,819 131,352 2012 55,575 55,575 2013 186,460 64,961 251,421 2014 25,400 25,400 Thereafter 42,431 42,431 $ 291,666 $ 227,223 $ 518,889 Our current intention is to repay the debt at maturity and not seek to refinance debt maturities with additional debt. Alternatively, we may prepay debt and finance such prepayments with cash on hand or proceeds from the issuance of preferred or common securities. On February 12, 2009, we acquired approximately $110 million face amount of our existing senior unsecured debt pursuant to a tender offer. The amount paid in the tender offer, approximately $110 million, was substantially less than what would have been paid if we were to repay this debt early subject to the prepayment premiums under the related debt agreements. Our portfolio of real estate facilities is substantially unencumbered. At December 31, 2009, we have 1,902 self storage facilities with an aggregate net book value of approximately $7.0 billion that are unencumbered. Capital Improvement Requirements: During 2010, we expect to incur approximately $80 million for capital improvements. Capital improvements include major repairs or replacements to our facilities, which keep the facilities in good operating condition and maintain their visual appeal to the customer. Capital improvements do not include costs relating to the development or expansion of facilities that add additional net rentable square footage to our portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred capital improvements of approximately $62.4 million. Requirement to Pay Distributions: We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, but no assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain limited exceptions, on the REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed. We believe we have satisfied the REIT distribution requirement since 1981. Although we have not finalized our 2009 taxable income, we believe that the aggregate distributions paid in 2009 to our shareholders enable us to continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements. Aggregate distributions paid during 2009 totaled $624.7 million, consisting of the following (amounts in thousands: Distributions paid in 2009 Cumulative preferred shareholders $ 232,431 Equity Shares, Series A shareholders 20,524 Common shareholders and restricted share unitholders 371,710 Total REIT qualifying distributions $ 624,665 For 2010, we estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our (i) cumulative preferred shares outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $232.4 million, assuming no additional preferred share issuances or redemptions during 2010, and (ii) Equity Shares, Series A shares to be approximately $5.1 million, representing distributions through March 31, 2010. We will be redeeming these securities on April 15, 2010 and no further distributions will be paid for the period subsequent to March 31, 2010. 52 On February 26, 2010, our Board of Trustees declared a regular common dividend of $0.65 per common share, representing an increase of $0.10 per share (an 18% increase) from the previous quarters distribution. Our consistent, long term dividend policy has been to only distribute our taxable income. Taxable income attributable to our common shareholders has increased due to recent purchases of preferred securities and equity stock, as well as reduced property depreciation, offset in part, by declines in operating income. Future changes in our dividend will be impacted by these same factors, as well as property acquisitions. Future distributions with respect to the common shares will continue to be determined based upon our REIT distribution requirements after taking into consideration distributions to the preferred shareholders and will be funded with operating cash flow. We are also obligated to pay distributions to non controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries. During 2009, we paid distributions totaling $9.5 million with respect to preferred partnership units. We expect our annual distribution requirement based upon preferred partnership units outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $7.3 million on a go forward basis. In addition, we are required to pay distributions to other non controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries based upon the operating cash flows of the respective subsidiary less any required reserves for capital expenditures or debt repayment. Such non controlling interests received a total of $18,812,000 in 2009, $17,716,000 in 2008 and $20,047,000 in 2007, which represents our expectations with respect to future distribution levels. Acquisition and Development of Facilities: During 2010, we will continue to seek to acquire self storage facilities from third parties; however, it is difficult to estimate the amount of third party acquisitions we will undertake. We have a minimal development pipeline at December 31, 2009 and have no current plan to expand our development activities. We plan on financing these activities with available cash on hand, the assumption of existing debt, borrowings on our line of credit, or the net proceeds from the issuance of common or preferred securities. European Activities: We have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe and our institutional partner owns the remaining 51% interest. As of December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe owed us 391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31, 2009) pursuant to a loan agreement. Effective, October 31, 2009, the terms of the loan were modified to increase the interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum and the maturity date was extended from March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2013. All other material terms and covenants remain the same. The loan is unsecured and can be prepaid at anytime without penalty. Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in two joint ventures (First Shurgard and Second Shurgard). We are committed to provide additional financing to Shurgard Europe to facilitate the acquisition of its partners 80% interest in each of these two joint ventures. If Shurgard Europe acquires its partners 80% interest in either First Shurgard and Second Shurgard and is unable to obtain third party financing to repay the existing loans of the joint ventures, we have agreed to provide additional loans to Shurgard Europe, under the same terms as the our 391.9 million loan, for up to 185 million ($265.2 million as of December 31, 2009). This commitment expires on March 31, 2010 and was originally for 305 million, but was reduced as the result of refinancing one of the joint venture loans. Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and the acquisition of these interests is contingent on a number of items, including whether we assent to the acquisition. The two joint ventures collectively had approximately 224 million ($321 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009, which is non recourse to Shurgard Europe. One of the joint venture loans, totaling 107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan, totaling 117 million ($168 million), is due in July 2010. Both joint venture loans are secured by the joint ventures respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe or any third party. 53 We also committed to fund up to $88.2 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain investing activities. Our remaining obligation under this commitment totaled $66.4 million at December 31, 2009. Redemption of Preferred Securities: As of December 31, 2009, several series of our preferred securities were redeemable at our option upon at least 30 days notice. These series have annual dividend rates ranging from 6.125% to 7.5% and have an aggregate redemption value of approximately $873 million. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred securities will depend upon many factors including when, or if, market conditions improve such that we can issue new preferred shares at a lower cost of capital than the shares that would be redeemed. Repurchases of Companys Equity and Preferred Securities: Dislocations in capital markets have provided opportunities for the repurchase of our preferred and debt securities. During 2009, we repurchased certain of our Cumulative Preferred Shares in privately negotiated transactions with a liquidation value of $24.6 million for approximately $17.5 million, including accrued dividends, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $1.8 million per year. Also during 2009, we repurchased certain of our Preferred Partnership Units in privately negotiated transactions with a carrying amount of $225 million for approximately $153 million, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $14.4 million per year. Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares. From the inception of the repurchase program through February 26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million. Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common shares. These acquisitions were funded with cash on hand. We continue to monitor the existing trading ranges of all our outstanding debt and equity securities for potential opportunities. Contractual Obligations Our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and their impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending December 31 (amounts in thousands): Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Long term debt (1) $ 605,557 $ 41,257 $ 154,355 $ 74,722 $ 259,845 $ 28,472 $ 46,906 Operating leases (2) 95,745 6,135 5,561 5,269 5,046 4,998 68,736 Construction commitments (3) 10,055 10,055 Total $ 711,357 $ 57,447 $ 159,916 $ 79,991 $ 264,891 $ 33,470 $ 115,642 (1) Amounts include principal and fixed rate interest payments on our notes payable based on their contractual terms. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional information on our notes payable. (2) We lease land, equipment and office space under various operating leases. Certain leases are cancelable, however, significant penalties would be incurred upon cancellation. Amounts reflected above consider continuance of the lease without cancellation. (3) Includes contractual obligations for development and capital expenditures at December 31, 2009. 54 We have not included any additional funding requirements that we may be required to make to Shurgard Europe as a contractual obligation in the table above, since it is uncertain whether or not we will be required to fund any additional amounts and because such funding is subject to our assent. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we called for redemption our Equity Shares, Series A. These shares will be redeemed on April 15, 2010 for an aggregate of $205.2 million or $24.50 per share. These amounts are not included in the table above as they were not an obligation at December 31, 2009. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements: At December 31, 2009 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S K 303(a)(4) and the instructions thereto. 55 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk To limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations and growth with permanent equity capital consisting of retained operating cash flow, capital raised through the issuance of common shares and preferred shares. At December 31, 2009, our debt as a percentage of total equity (based on book values) was 5.7%. Our preferred shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders. These shares, however, are redeemable, after a set period of time, at our option. At December 31, 2009, our Series V, Series W, Series X, Series Y, Series Z, Series A, Series B and Series C preferred shares are currently redeemable by us at our option. Except under certain conditions relating to the Companys qualification as a REIT, the preferred shares are not redeemable by the Company pursuant to its redemption option prior to the dates set forth in Note 8 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Our market risk sensitive instruments include notes payable, which totaled $518,889,000 at December 31, 2009. We have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in Shurgard Europe, which has a book value of $272.3 million at December 31, 2009. We also have a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe, which is denominated in Euros, totaling 391.9 million ($561.7 million) at December 31, 2009. We also have an obligation, in certain circumstances, to loan up to an additional 185 million ($265.2 million) to Shurgard Europe. The table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at December 31, 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ 12,710 $ 131,352 $ 55,575 $ 251,421 $ 25,400 $ 42,431 $ 518,889 $ 525,883 Average interest rate 5.68 % 5.69 % 5.70 % 5.62 % 5.50 % 5.50 % Variable rate debt (1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average interest rate (1) Amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in March 2012. As of December 31, 2009, we have no borrowings under our line of credit. 56 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Forward Looking Statements: This Annual Report on Form 10 K contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storages actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. As a result, you should not rely on any forward looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where expressly required by law. Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward looking statements to anticipate future results. Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (SEC). Critical Accounting Policies Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The notes to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, primarily Note 2, summarize the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Management believes the following are critical accounting policies, the application of which has a material impact on the Companys financial presentation. That is, they are both important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and they require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Qualification as a REIT Income Tax Expense: We believe that we have been organized and operated, and we intend to continue to operate, as a qualifying REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state laws. We also believe that Shurgard, prior to merging with us, qualified as a REIT. A REIT generally does not pay corporate level federal income taxes on its REIT taxable income that is distributed to its shareholders, and accordingly, we do not pay federal income tax on the share of our REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. We therefore do not estimate or accrue any federal income tax expense for income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be incorrect, because due to the complex nature of the REIT qualification requirements, the ongoing importance of factual determinations and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we actually have satisfied or will satisfy the requirements for taxation as a REIT for any particular taxable year. For any taxable year that we fail or have failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable relief provisions did not apply, we would be taxed at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we made or make any distributions to our shareholders. Any resulting requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable penalties or interest, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we also would not be eligible to elect REIT status for any taxable year prior to the fifth taxable year which begins after the first taxable year for which a REIT status was terminated. There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory relief. In addition, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we would succeed to significant tax liabilities. 28 Impairment of Long Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of real estate which are long lived assets. The evaluation of our long lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of impairment exist, which is a subjective process. When any indicators of impairment are found, the evaluation of such long lived assets then entails projections of future operating cash flows, which also involves significant judgment. Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future that our long lived assets are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Estimated Useful Lives of Long Lived Assets: Substantially all of our assets consist of depreciable or amortizable long lived assets. We record depreciation and amortization expense with respect to these assets based upon their estimated useful lives. Any change in the estimated useful lives of those assets, caused by functional or economic obsolescence or other factors, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Accruals for Contingencies: We are exposed to business and legal liability risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we have not accrued for certain potential liabilities because the loss is either not probable or not estimable or because we are not aware of the event. Future events and the results of pending litigation could result in such potential losses becoming probable and estimable, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Significant unaccrued losses that we have determined are at least reasonably possible are described in Note 13 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Accruals for Operating Expenses: Certain of our expenses are estimated based upon assumptions regarding past and future trends, such as losses for workers compensation and employee health plans, and estimated claims for our tenant reinsurance program. Our property tax expense, which as a real estate operator represents one of our largest expenses totaling approximately $150 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, has significant estimated components. Most notably, in certain jurisdictions we do not receive tax bills for the current fiscal year until after our earnings are finalized, and as a result, we must estimate tax expense based upon anticipated implementation of regulations and trends. If these estimates and assumptions were incorrect, our expenses could be misstated. Valuation of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations: We have estimated the fair value of real estate, intangible assets, debt, and the other assets and other liabilities acquired in business combinations, most notably the Shurgard Merger. We have acquired these assets, in certain cases, with non cash assets, most notably the 38.9 million shares that we issued to the Shurgard shareholders. These estimates are based upon many assumptions, including interest rates, market values of land and buildings in the U.S. and Europe, estimated future cash flows from the tenant base in place at the time of the merger, and the recoverability of certain assets. We believe that the assumptions used were reasonable, however, these assumptions were subject to a significant degree of judgment, and others could use different assumptions and therefore come to materially different conclusions as to the estimated values. If estimated values had been different, our depreciation and amortization expense, interest expense, gain on disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, investments in real estate entities, real estate, debt, and intangible assets could be materially different. Overview of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Operations Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month to month basis, for personal and business use. We are the largest owner and operator of self storage facilities in the U.S., and we have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe, which we believe is the largest owner and operator of self storage facilities in Europe. 29 We currently operate within three reportable segments: (i) Domestic Self Storage, (ii) Europe Self Storage and (iii) Commercial. The Domestic Self Storage segment comprises the direct and indirect ownership, development, and operation of storage facilities in the U.S. Our Europe Self Storage segment comprises our equity interest in the self storage operations in Europe through our 49% ownership in Shurgard Europe and its associated activities in seven countries in Western Europe. Our Commercial segment includes our commercial property operations, directly and through our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (PSB), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PSB (as of December 31, 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space). See Investment in PSB under Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities below for information regarding transactions related to our investment in PSB recorded during the year ended December 31, 2009. Our other activities not allocated to any segment include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self storage facilities, (ii) merchandise sales at our self storage facilities and (iii) management of self storage facilities owned by third party owners and domestic facilities owned by the affiliated entities that are not consolidated. During 2009, we decided to terminate our containerized storage and truck rental operations. Accordingly, the related results of operations have been included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income. Our self storage facilities in the U.S. comprise approximately 93% of our operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, and represent the primary driver of growth in our net income and cash flows from operations. In addition, most of our ancillary revenues are derived at our self storage facility locations, either from our existing self storage customer base or from the customer traffic within our self storage facilities. Accordingly, a large portion of management time and focus is placed upon maximizing revenues and effectively managing expenses in our self storage facilities. The self storage industry is subject to general economic conditions, particularly those that affect the disposable income and spending of consumers, as well as those that affect moving trends. Due to the recessionary pressures in the U.S. and Europe, demand for self storage space was soft in 2009 and continues to be soft. As a result, we are experiencing downward pressure on occupancy levels, rental rates, and revenues in our self storage facilities. An important determinant of our long term growth is the expansion of our asset base and deployment of capital. Acquisitions of self storage facilities have been minimal over the past two years as we continue to monitor seller expectations. However, we believe that there may be more opportunities to acquire facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which could force a sale of the properties. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders desire to extend loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. Historically we have developed and redeveloped self storage facilities. Our development activities have substantially ceased due to the existing economic environment and our belief that our capital can be more effectively put to use in other ways. On February 12, 2009, we acquired $110.2 million (face amount) of our senior unsecured debt. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, we acquired $352.7 million (face amount) of our preferred shares and units on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions for an aggregate acquisition cost of $237.4 million. There could be opportunities for future acquisition of our own outstanding debt and equity securities, particularly if there were a return to the same acute turbulence in the credit and equity markets which occurred in late 2008 and early 2009. Any future such transactions will depend upon our evaluation of the return of such investments relative to our other investment alternatives. There can be no assurance that any future such transactions will occur or the potential yield on such transactions. We have $763.8 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at December 31, 2009, and continue to evaluate opportunities to effectively deploy this capital. 30 Results of Operations Operating results for 2009 as compared to 2008: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $790.5 million compared to $973.9 million for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $183.4 million. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a gain of $344.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe, (ii) a $37.9 million reduction in net operating income with respect to our Same Store Facilities described below, and (iii) an impairment charge included in discontinued operations with respect to intangible assets totaling $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009, partially offset by (iv) a $49.9 million reduction in depreciation and amortization related to our domestic assets, primarily representing reduced intangible amortization, (v) a foreign exchange gain of $9.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to a loss of $25.4 million during the same period in 2008, (vi) a gain on disposition of $30.3 million related to an equity offering by PSB, and (vii) a reduction in general and administrative expenses due to $27.9 million in incentive compensation incurred in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. Revenues for the Same Store Facilities decreased 3.2% or $46.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008, due to a 2.8% reduction in realized rent per occupied square foot, combined with a 0.9% reduction in average occupancies. Cost of operations for the Same Store Facilities decreased 1.8% or $8.2 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. Net operating income for our Same Store Facilities decreased 3.9% or $37.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $586.0 million or $3.47 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share for the same period in 2008, representing a decrease of $119.8 million or $0.71 per common share on a diluted basis. These decreases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, offset by a $44.4 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred unitholders and preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008 associated with the redemption of preferred securities occurring in both periods. Operating results for 2008 as compared to 2007: Net income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $973.9 million compared to $487.1 million for the same period in 2007, representing an improvement of $486.8 million. This improvement is primarily due to a gain of $344.7 million recognized on the disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, improvements in net operating income with respect to our domestic self storage facilities and a reduction in amortization of intangible assets, offset by a foreign currency exchange loss of $25.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to a foreign exchange gain of $58.4 million in 2007. Comparisons of our revenues and expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 to the year ended December 31, 2007 are significantly impacted by the acquisition by an institutional investor of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe on March 31, 2008, which resulted in the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europes revenues and expenses after March 31, 2008 are excluded from our statement of operations and, instead, our 49% equity share of Shurgard Europes operating results are included in the line item equity in earnings of real estate entities and we also record interest and other income with respect to (i) the interest received on our intercompany loan from Shurgard Europe and (ii) license fee income. For the year ended December 31, 2008, net income allocable to our common shareholders was $705.8 million or $4.18 per common share on a diluted basis compared to $199.0 million or $1.17 per common share for the same period in 2007, representing an increase of $506.8 million or $3.01 per common share on a diluted basis. These increases are primarily due to the net impact of the factors described above, partially offset by a $33.9 million reduction in earnings allocated to our preferred shareholders in the year ended December 31, 2008 associated with the repurchase of securities. 31 Real Estate Operations Self Storage Operations: Our self storage operations are by far the largest component of our operating activities, representing more than 90% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. To enhance year over year comparisons, the table that follows summarizes, and the ensuing discussion describes, the operating results of three groups of facilities that management analyzes: (i) the Same Store group, representing the facilities in the Domestic Self Storage Segment that we have owned and have been operating on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007, (ii) all other facilities in the Domestic Self Storage Segment, which are primarily those consolidated facilities that we have not owned and operated at a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007 such as newly acquired, newly developed, or recently expanded facilities, and (iii) the facilities operated by Shurgard Europe which were deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. Self Storage Operations Summary Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change (Dollar amounts in thousands) Rental income: Same Store Facilities $ 1,389,515 $ 1,435,630 (3.2 )% $ 1,435,630 $ 1,396,758 2.8 % Other Facilities 100,777 88,665 13.7 % 88,665 71,039 24.8 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 54,722 (100.0 )% 54,722 192,507 (71.6 )% Total rental income 1,490,292 1,579,017 (5.6 )% 1,579,017 1,660,304 (4.9 )% Cost of operations: Same Store Facilities 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Other Facilities 32,315 31,640 2.1 % 31,640 27,936 13.3 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 24,654 (100.0 )% 24,654 91,689 (73.1 )% Total cost of operations 486,928 519,090 (6.2 )% 519,090 579,193 (10.4 )% Net operating income (b): Same Store Facilities 934,902 972,834 (3.9 )% 972,834 937,190 3.8 % Other Facilities 68,462 57,025 20.1 % 57,025 43,103 32.3 % Shurgard Europe Facilities (a) 30,068 (100.0 )% 30,068 100,818 (70.2 )% Total net operating income 1,003,364 1,059,927 (5.3 )% 1,059,927 1,081,111 (2.0 )% Total depreciation and amortization expense (337,275 ) (409,081 ) (17.6 )% (409,081 ) (617,028 ) (33.7 )% Total net income $ 666,089 $ 650,846 2.3 % $ 650,846 $ 464,083 40.2 % Data for Same Store and Other Facilities: Weighted average square foot occupancy during the period: Same Store Facilities 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % Other Facilities 84.1 % 79.0 % 6.5 % 79.0 % 70.5 % 12.1 % Realized rents per occupied square foot during the period (c): Same Store Facilities $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % Other Facilities $ 13.62 $ 14.01 (2.8 )% $ 14.01 $ 14.35 (2.4 )% Number of facilities at period end: Same Store Facilities 1,899 1,899 1,899 1,899 Other Facilities 92 91 1.1 % 91 82 11.0 % Net rentable square footage at period end (in thousands): Same Store Facilities 117,462 117,462 117,462 117,462 Other Facilities 8,500 8,360 1.7 % 8,360 7,198 16.1 % Square foot occupancy at period end: Same Store Facilities 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.9 % (0.9 )% Other Facilities 84.9 % 80.0 % 6.1 % 80.0 % 71.5 % 11.9 % 32 Self Storage Operations Summary (Continued) Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change In place rents per occupied square foot at period end (d): Same Store Facilities $ 13.46 $ 14.02 (4.0 )% $ 14.02 $ 13.89 0.9 % Other Facilities $ 14.65 $ 15.14 (3.2 )% $ 15.14 $ 15.62 (3.1 )% (a) Represents the results with respect to Shurgard Europes properties for the periods consolidated in our financial statements. As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, effective March 31, 2008, we deconsolidated Shurgard Europe. See also Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities Investment in Shurgard Europe for further analysis of the historical same store property operations of Shurgard Europe. (b) See Net Operating Income or NOI below. (c) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (d) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Net income with respect to our self storage operations increased by $15.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, when compared to the same period in 2008. This was due to a) declining amortization of tenant intangible assets, b) a 1.8% reduction in cost of operations for the Same Store facilities, and c) a $12.1 million increase in revenues with respect to the Other Facilities, offset by d) a 3.2% decrease in revenues for our Same Store facilities and e) the deconsolidation of the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. Net income with respect to our self storage operations increased by $186.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, when compared to 2007 due to decreased amortization of tenant intangible assets and increased revenues for the Same Store facilities and the Other Facilities, offset partially by the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective April 1, 2008. 33 Net Operating Income We refer herein to net operating income (NOI) of our self storage facilities, which is a non GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization are a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, property performance, and comparing period to period and market to market property operating results. In addition, we believe the investment community utilizes NOI in determining operating performance and real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization or net income in evaluating our operating results. The following reconciles NOI generated by our self storage and Shurgard Europe segments to our consolidated net income in our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Amounts in thousands) Net operating income: Same store facilities $ 934,902 $ 972,834 $ 937,190 Other facilities 68,462 57,025 43,103 Shurgard Europe facilities 30,068 100,818 Total net operating income 1,003,364 1,059,927 1,081,111 Ancillary operating revenue 107,597 108,421 115,481 Interest and other income 29,813 36,155 11,417 Ancillary cost of operations (36,011 ) (36,528 ) (51,961 ) Depreciation and amortization (340,233 ) (411,981 ) (619,598 ) General and administrative expense (35,735 ) (62,809 ) (59,749 ) Interest expense (29,916 ) (43,944 ) (63,671 ) Equity in earnings of real estate entities 53,244 20,391 12,738 Gains on disposition of real estate investments and casualty losses, net 33,426 336,020 5,212 Gain on early debt retirement 4,114 Foreign currency exchange gain (loss) 9,662 (25,362 ) 58,444 Discontinued operations (8,869 ) (6,418 ) (2,346 ) Net income of the Company $ 790,456 $ 973,872 $ 487,078 34 Same Store Facilities The Same Store Facilities represents those 1,899 facilities that we have owned, and have been operated on a stabilized basis, since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table summarizes the historical operating results of these 1,899 facilities (117.5 million net rentable square feet) that represent approximately 93% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our U.S. consolidated self storage portfolio at December 31, 2009. SAME STORE FACILITIES Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change Revenues: (Dollar amounts in thousands, except weighted average amounts) Rental income $ 1,324,747 $ 1,375,484 (3.7 )% $ 1,375,484 $ 1,339,637 2.7 % Late charges and admin fees collected 64,768 60,146 7.7 % 60,146 57,121 5.3 % Total revenues (a) 1,389,515 1,435,630 (3.2 )% 1,435,630 1,396,758 2.8 % Cost of operations: Property taxes 139,776 135,825 2.9 % 135,825 132,411 2.6 % Direct property payroll 94,262 94,303 0.0 % 94,303 93,152 1.2 % Media advertising 19,795 19,853 (0.3 )% 19,853 20,917 (5.1 )% Other advertising and promotion 20,079 18,235 10.1 % 18,235 18,778 (2.9 )% Utilities 34,636 36,411 (4.9 )% 36,411 35,094 3.8 % Repairs and maintenance 38,356 42,696 (10.2 )% 42,696 43,332 (1.5 )% Telephone reservation center 11,040 12,580 (12.2 )% 12,580 12,642 (0.5 )% Property insurance 9,761 11,391 (14.3 )% 11,391 13,498 (15.6 )% Other cost of management 86,908 91,502 (5.0 )% 91,502 89,744 2.0 % Total cost of operations (a) 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Net operating income (b) 934,902 972,834 (3.9 )% 972,834 937,190 3.8 % Depreciation and amortization expense (c) (301,647 ) (344,905 ) (12.5 )% (344,905 ) (447,245 ) (22.9 )% Net income $ 633,255 $ 627,929 0.8 % $ 627,929 $ 489,945 28.2 % Gross margin (before depreciation and amortization expense) 67.3 % 67.8 % (0.7 )% 67.8 % 67.1 % 1.0 % Weighted average for the period: Square foot occupancy (d) 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (e)(f) $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % REVPAF (f)(g) $ 11.28 $ 11.71 (3.7 )% $ 11.71 $ 11.40 2.7 % Weighted average at December 31: Square foot occupancy 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.1 % 87.9 % (0.9 )% In place annual rent per occupied square foot (h) $ 13.46 $ 14.02 (4.0 )% $ 14.02 $ 13.89 0.9 % Total net rentable square feet (in thousands) 117,462 117,462 117,462 117,462 Number of facilities 1,899 1,899 1,899 1,899 (a) Revenues and cost of operations do not include ancillary revenues and expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance, retail sales and truck rentals. Other costs of management included in cost of operations principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of the facilities. Indirect costs principally include supervisory costs and corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the facilities. (b) See Net Operating Income above. (c) Depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 decreased, as compared to the year prior, primarily due to a reduction in amortization expense related to intangible assets that we obtained in the Shurgard Merger. 35 (d) Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period. (e) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. (f) Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (g) Realized annual rent per available foot or REVPAF is computed by dividing rental income (which excludes late charges and administrative fees) by the total available net rentable square feet for the period. (h) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities decreased approximately 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008. This decrease was primarily caused by lower rental income as a result of lower average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with lower average occupancy levels. For 2009, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.8% lower and average occupancy levels were 0.9% lower as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 3.7% reduction in rental income. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities increased approximately 2.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. This increase was primarily caused by higher rental income as a result of higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot combined with higher average occupancy levels. For 2008, average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot were 2.4% higher and average occupancy levels were 0.2% higher as compared to the same period in 2008, resulting in a 2.7% increase in rental income. Our operating strategy is to maintain occupancy levels for our Same Store facilities at approximately 90% throughout the year. In order to achieve this strategy, we adjusted rental rates and promotional discounts offered to new tenants as well as the frequency of television advertising, increasing or decreasing each, depending on traffic patterns of new tenants renting space offset by existing tenants vacating. We experience seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Consequently, rates charged new tenants are typically higher in the summer months than in the winter months. Over the past two years, demand for self storage space has been negatively impacted by recessionary pressures, including increased unemployment, reduced housing sales, and reduced moving activity, in each of the markets in which we operate. As indicated in the table below, during the first three quarters of 2008, we generated relatively strong year over year revenue growth. Beginning in September 2008, we began to experience a notable decline in year over year move ins that continued through October 2008, which we believe reflected general economic conditions. To offset the decline in new rentals, we significantly reduced rental rates, increased promotional discounts to new incoming tenants, and increased marketing efforts. We believe these actions have stabilized move in volumes on a year over year basis; however, we have not yet been able to restore rental rates to the levels experienced in the prior year. We believe overall demand for self storage space in virtually all of our markets in which we operate has decreased due to current economic conditions, and coupled with an increase in the number of self storage operators over the past 10 years, will continue to foster a very difficult operating environment, at least in the near term. In addition, increased move out activity beginning in August 2008 exacerbated the downward pressure on occupancy levels created by reduced demand. In March 2009, the increase in move out activity began to subside to more normalized levels. 36 Same Store Year over Year Change Three Months Ended: Rental income Realized rent per occupied square foot Square foot occupancy March 31, 2008 3.4 % 3.0 % 0.3 % June 30, 2008 3.4 % 3.0 % 0.4 % September 30, 2008 2.5 % 1.9 % 0.6 % December 31, 2008 1.5 % 1.9 % (0.5 )% For entire year: 2008 2.7 % 2.4 % 0.2 % March 31, 2009 (1.2 )% (0.2 )% (1.0 )% June 30, 2009 (4.0 )% (2.9 )% (1.1 )% September 30, 2009 (5.2 )% (4.2 )% (1.0 )% December 31, 2009 (4.3 )% (3.8 )% (0.5 )% For entire year: 2009 (3.7 )% (2.8 )% (0.9 )% Based upon our evaluation of certain comparative key operating metrics as of December 31, 2009, we believe that revenue for the three months ending March 31, 2010 will be lower than the same period in 2009. Our operating strategy will be to continue to focus on maintaining occupancy levels by adjusting rental rates, promotional discounts and marketing activities. It is unclear to us how much the above mentioned factors will impact our revenues beyond the first quarter of 2010. From a geographic standpoint, we are experiencing the greatest year over year revenue declines in our Southeast markets, located in North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, as well as the West Coast, which includes Seattle, Portland, San Francisco and Los Angeles. See Analysis of Regional Trends table that follows. Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization) decreased by 1.8% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased by 0.7% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 was due to reduced utilities, repairs and maintenance, telephone reservation center, property insurance and other cost of management which were offset in part by increases in property taxes and other advertising and promotion expenses. The small increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 was due primarily to higher property tax and utilities expenses which were partially offset by lower property insurance expense. Property tax expense increased 2.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and 2.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These increases are primarily due to increases in assessments of property values and to a lesser degree increases in tax rates. We expect property tax expense growth of approximately 3.5% in 2010. Direct property payroll expense was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and increased by 1.2% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 reflects higher hours incurred due to adjustments in staffing levels, offset by lower incentive pay and stagnant growth in average wage rates. For 2010, we expect moderate growth trends in payroll. Media advertising for the Same Store Facilities was flat in 2009 as compared to 2008 and decreased 5.1% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Media advertising primarily includes the cost of advertising on television and will vary depending on a number of factors, including our occupancy levels and demand. Other advertising and promotion is comprised principally of yellow page and internet advertising, which increased 10.1% during 2009 as compared to 2008, and decreased 2.9% during 2008 as compared to 2007. Our future spending on yellow page, media, and internet advertising expenditures will be driven in part by demand for our self storage spaces, our current occupancy levels, and the relative efficacy of each type of advertising. Media advertising in particular can be volatile and increase or decrease significantly in the short term. 37 Utility expenses decreased 4.9% in 2009 as compared to 2008, and increased 3.8% in 2008 as compared to 2007. The increase in 2008 was due primarily to higher electrical costs, which we believe in part was caused by rapid increase in energy prices, and in particular oil, used by local utility companies to produce electricity during 2008. Similarly, the decrease utility expense experienced in 2009, was due primarily to reduced year over year energy prices. It is difficult to estimate future utility cost levels because utility costs are dependent upon changes in demand driven by weather and temperature, as well as fuel prices, both of which are volatile and not predictable. Repairs and maintenance expenditures decreased 10.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 1.5% in 2008 as compared to 2007. Repairs and maintenance expenditures are dependent upon several factors, such as weather, the timing of periodic needs throughout our portfolio, inflation, and random events and accordingly are difficult to project from year to year. Due to severe weather, we expect snow removal expenses to be approximately $2 million higher in the three months ending March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. However, we expect overall repairs and maintenance expenditures to grow moderately in 2010. Telephone reservation center costs decreased 12.2% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and were flat in 2008 compared to 2007. The reduction in 2009 was primarily due to lower call volumes, resulting in less staffing hours, as well as a shift from our California to our Arizona call center, resulting in lower average compensation rates. We expect future increases in our telephone reservation center to be based primarily upon general inflation. Insurance expense decreased 14.3% in 2009 as compared to 2008 and 15.6% in 2008 as compared to 2007. These declines reflect significant decreases in property insurance resulting primarily from the softer insurance markets as lack of hurricane activity and additional competition from insurance providers has benefited us. We expect insurance expense to be down slightly in 2010 as compared to 2009. 38 The following table summarizes selected quarterly financial data with respect to the Same Store Facilities: For the Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Entire Year (Amounts in thousands, except for per square foot amount) Total revenues: 2009 $ 347,185 $ 346,839 $ 352,121 $ 343,370 $ 1,389,515 2008 $ 349,991 $ 359,461 $ 368,976 $ 357,202 $ 1,435,630 2007 $ 338,454 $ 347,468 $ 359,627 $ 351,209 $ 1,396,758 Total cost of operations: 2009 $ 125,007 $ 116,426 $ 113,286 $ 99,894 $ 454,613 2008 $ 123,856 $ 120,526 $ 113,972 $ 104,442 $ 462,796 2007 $ 118,916 $ 118,985 $ 115,176 $ 106,491 $ 459,568 Property tax expense: 2009 $ 37,762 $ 36,659 $ 37,137 $ 28,218 $ 139,776 2008 $ 36,349 $ 35,156 $ 36,161 $ 28,159 $ 135,825 2007 $ 34,793 $ 33,682 $ 34,969 $ 28,967 $ 132,411 Media advertising expense: 2009 $ 8,158 $ 7,224 $ 3,430 $ 983 $ 19,795 2008 $ 6,947 $ 9,836 $ 2,148 $ 922 $ 19,853 2007 $ 5,287 $ 8,388 $ 4,409 $ 2,833 $ 20,917 Other advertising and promotion expense: 2009 $ 4,614 $ 5,967 $ 4,942 $ 4,556 $ 20,079 2008 $ 4,426 $ 5,027 $ 4,645 $ 4,137 $ 18,235 2007 $ 4,956 $ 5,342 $ 4,457 $ 4,023 $ 18,778 REVPAF: 2009 $ 11.29 $ 11.27 $ 11.41 $ 11.15 $ 11.28 2008 $ 11.43 $ 11.74 $ 12.03 $ 11.65 $ 11.71 2007 $ 11.05 $ 11.35 $ 11.74 $ 11.48 $ 11.40 Weighted average realized annual rent per occupied square foot (a): 2009 $ 12.84 $ 12.52 $ 12.73 $ 12.76 $ 12.71 2008 $ 12.87 $ 12.90 $ 13.29 $ 13.27 $ 13.08 2007 $ 12.49 $ 12.53 $ 13.04 $ 13.02 $ 12.77 Weighted average occupancy levels for the period (a): 2009 87.9 % 90.0 % 89.6 % 87.4 % 88.7 % 2008 88.8 % 91.0 % 90.5 % 87.8 % 89.5 % 2007 88.5 % 90.6 % 90.0 % 88.2 % 89.3 % 39 Analysis of Regional Trends The following table sets forth regional trends in our Same Store Facilities: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data) Same Store Facilities Operating Trends by Region Revenues: Southern California (176 facilities) $ 203,794 $ 212,556 (4.1 )% $ 212,556 $ 205,142 3.6 % Northern California (167 facilities) 149,043 154,064 (3.3 )% 154,064 146,872 4.9 % Texas (231 facilities) 139,614 141,155 (1.1 )% 141,155 135,513 4.2 % Florida (182 facilities) 134,104 141,601 (5.3 )% 141,601 144,071 (1.7 )% Illinois (119 facilities) 87,837 90,283 (2.7 )% 90,283 86,513 4.4 % Washington (88 facilities) 71,292 75,036 (5.0 )% 75,036 73,284 2.4 % Georgia (86 facilities) 48,466 51,381 (5.7 )% 51,381 51,008 0.7 % All other states (850 facilities) 555,365 569,554 (2.5 )% 569,554 554,355 2.7 % Total revenues 1,389,515 1,435,630 (3.2 )% 1,435,630 1,396,758 2.8 % Cost of operations: Southern California 45,304 44,938 0.8 % 44,938 45,328 (0.9 )% Northern California 39,400 40,047 (1.6 )% 40,047 40,786 (1.8 )% Texas 53,657 54,827 (2.1 )% 54,827 53,968 1.6 % Florida 46,110 48,454 (4.8 )% 48,454 48,167 0.6 % Illinois 39,185 37,774 3.7 % 37,774 38,410 (1.7 )% Washington 17,749 17,743 0.0 % 17,743 17,371 2.1 % Georgia 16,607 17,027 (2.5 )% 17,027 16,593 2.6 % All other states 196,601 201,986 (2.7 )% 201,986 198,945 1.5 % Total cost of operations 454,613 462,796 (1.8 )% 462,796 459,568 0.7 % Net operating income (a): Southern California 158,490 167,618 (5.4 )% 167,618 159,814 4.9 % Northern California 109,643 114,017 (3.8 )% 114,017 106,086 7.5 % Texas 85,957 86,328 (0.4 )% 86,328 81,545 5.9 % Florida 87,994 93,147 (5.5 )% 93,147 95,904 (2.9 )% Illinois 48,652 52,509 (7.3 )% 52,509 48,103 9.2 % Washington 53,543 57,293 (6.5 )% 57,293 55,913 2.5 % Georgia 31,859 34,354 (7.3 )% 34,354 34,415 (0.2 )% All other states 358,764 367,568 (2.4 )% 367,568 355,410 3.4 % Total net operating income $ 934,902 $ 972,834 (3.9 )% $ 972,834 $ 937,190 3.8 % Weighted average occupancy: Southern California 89.9 % 90.3 % (0.4 )% 90.3 % 90.0 % 0.3 % Northern California 88.9 % 89.8 % (1.0 )% 89.8 % 89.0 % 0.9 % Texas 88.9 % 90.4 % (1.7 )% 90.4 % 90.2 % 0.2 % Florida 88.6 % 89.0 % (0.4 )% 89.0 % 88.4 % 0.7 % Illinois 88.0 % 88.8 % (0.9 )% 88.8 % 88.3 % 0.6 % Washington 88.9 % 89.7 % (0.9 )% 89.7 % 90.6 % (1.0 )% Georgia 87.4 % 88.8 % (1.6 )% 88.8 % 90.0 % (1.3 )% All other states 88.6 % 89.3 % (0.8 )% 89.3 % 89.1 % 0.2 % Total weighted average occupancy 88.7 % 89.5 % (0.9 )% 89.5 % 89.3 % 0.2 % 40 Same Store Facilities Operating Trends by Region (Continued) Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (a): Southern California $ 18.78 $ 19.52 (3.8 )% $ 19.52 $ 18.91 3.2 % Northern California 16.77 17.16 (2.3 )% 17.16 16.49 4.1 % Texas 9.95 9.97 (0.2 )% 9.97 9.62 3.6 % Florida 12.12 12.87 (5.8 )% 12.87 13.24 (2.8 )% Illinois 12.93 13.24 (2.3 )% 13.24 12.75 3.8 % Washington 13.67 14.32 (4.5 )% 14.32 14.02 2.1 % Georgia 9.64 10.16 (5.1 )% 10.16 9.97 1.9 % All other states 11.67 11.95 (2.3 )% 11.95 11.69 2.2 % Total realized rent per square foot $ 12.71 $ 13.08 (2.8 )% $ 13.08 $ 12.77 2.4 % REVPAF (a): Southern California $ 16.88 $ 17.62 (4.2 )% $ 17.62 $ 17.03 3.5 % Northern California 14.91 15.41 (3.2 )% 15.41 14.68 5.0 % Texas 8.85 9.01 (1.8 )% 9.01 8.67 3.9 % Florida 10.74 11.46 (6.3 )% 11.46 11.71 (2.1 )% Illinois 11.38 11.76 (3.2 )% 11.76 11.26 4.4 % Washington 12.15 12.84 (5.4 )% 12.84 12.70 1.1 % Georgia 8.43 9.03 (6.6 )% 9.03 8.97 0.7 % All other states 10.35 10.67 (3.0 )% 10.67 10.42 2.4 % Total REVPAF $ 11.28 $ 11.71 (3.7 )% $ 11.71 $ 11.40 2.7 % (a) See Same Store Facilities table above for further information regarding these measures, which represent or are derived from non GAAP measures. We believe that our geographic diversification and scale provide some insulation from localized economic effects and add to the stability of our cash flows. It is difficult to predict localized trends in short term self storage demand and operating results. We believe that each market has been negatively impacted to some degree by general economic trends and may continue to experience negative operating trends until such time that general economic trends improve. 41 Other Facilities In addition to the Same Store facilities, at December 31, 2009, we had an additional 92 self storage facilities. These facilities include recently acquired facilities, recently developed facilities and facilities that were recently expanded by adding additional storage units. In general, these facilities are not stabilized with respect to occupancies or rental rates. As a result of the fill up process and timing of when the facilities were put into place, year over year changes can be significant. Rental income, cost of operations, depreciation, net operating income, weighted average square foot occupancies and realized rents per square foot in the table above represent the operating results following the date each particular facility began to be included in our consolidated operating results, and in the case of acquired facilities, do not include any operating results prior to our acquisition of these facilities. In 2009, we completed one newly developed facility with 64,000 net rentable square feet at a total cost of $11.9 million and four expansion projects to existing real estate facilities (76,000 net rentable square feet) for an aggregate cost of $19.1 million, and did not acquire any new properties. Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process of filling up to stabilized occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able to leverage off of our operating strategies and improve the occupancy levels of the facilities or, with respect to the newly developed facilities, we have been able to accelerate the fill up pace. We expect that the Other Facilities will continue to provide earnings growth during 2010, though at a lower level of growth than that experienced in 2009 and 2008, as these facilities reach stabilization. However, the Other Facilities are subject to the same occupancy and rate pressures that our Same Store facilities are facing, and accordingly the pace at which these facilities reach stabilization, and the ultimate level of cash flows to be reached upon stabilization, may be negatively impacted by the current economic trends. Because of reduced self storage demand, and our belief that our capital could be put to use in a more advantageous manner, our development activities throughout 2009 have been nominal, and we have a nominal pipeline of new development at December 31, 2009. It is unclear when we might change our strategy with respect to development activities. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the storage industry. We believe that there may be more opportunities for the acquisition of facilities from distressed sellers who, due to the constrained credit environment and pressure on cash flows due to the current difficult operating environment, face covenant violations or cannot refinance their existing debt as it comes due. The timing and amount of these opportunities will be at least partially dependent upon whether the banks and other lenders elect to pursue foreclosure, acceleration, or other remedies which would force a sale of the properties of these distressed owners, rather than extending existing loans or waiving covenant violations. It is our belief that opportunities in 2009 have been limited due at least in part to lenders desire to extend these loans rather than foreclose or accelerate. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will materialize in the future. 42 Equity in earnings of real estate entities At December 31, 2009, we have equity investments in PSB, Shurgard Europe and five affiliated limited partnerships. Due to our limited ownership interest and limited control of these entities, we do not consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and account for such investments using the equity method. Equity in earnings of real estate entities for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, consists of our pro rata share of the net income of these Unconsolidated Entities based upon our ownership interest for the period. The following table sets forth the significant components of equity in earnings of real estate entities. Amounts with respect to PSB, Shurgard Europe, and Other Investments are included in our Commercial segment, Europe Self Storage segment, and other items not allocated to segments, respectively, as described in Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Historical summary: Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands) Net operating income (1): PSB $ 81,525 $ 89,067 $ (7,542 ) $ 89,067 $ 82,279 $ 6,788 Shurgard Europe 46,374 38,785 7,589 38,785 38,785 Other Investments 2,713 4,626 (1,913 ) 4,626 4,878 (252 ) 130,612 132,478 (1,866 ) 132,478 87,157 45,321 Depreciation: PSB (37,167 ) (45,422 ) 8,255 (45,422 ) (43,316 ) (2,106 ) Shurgard Europe (24,498 ) (27,578 ) 3,080 (27,578 ) (27,578 ) Other Investments (806 ) (1,918 ) 1,112 (1,918 ) (1,991 ) 73 (62,471 ) (74,918 ) 12,447 (74,918 ) (45,307 ) (29,611 ) Other:(2): PSB (3) (9,250 ) (29,320 ) 20,070 (29,320 ) (28,461 ) (859 ) Shurgard Europe (5,607 ) (7,073 ) 1,466 (7,073 ) (7,073 ) Other Investments (40 ) (776 ) 736 (776 ) (651 ) (125 ) (14,897 ) (37,169 ) 22,272 (37,169 ) (29,112 ) (8,057 ) Total equity in earnings of real estate entities: PSB 35,108 14,325 20,783 14,325 10,502 3,823 Shurgard Europe 16,269 4,134 12,135 4,134 4,134 Other Investments 1,867 1,932 (65 ) 1,932 2,236 (304 ) $ 53,244 $ 20,391 $ 32,853 $ 20,391 $ 12,738 $ 7,653 (1) These amounts represent our pro rata share of the net operating income of the Unconsolidated Entities. See also net operating income above for a discussion of this non GAAP measure. (2) Other reflects our share of general and administrative expense, interest expense, interest income, gains on sale of real estate assets, and other non property; non depreciation related operating results of these entities. (3) Includes our pro rata share of benefit totaling $16.3 million and $1.9 million from PSBs preferred stock and preferred unit repurchases for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Investment in PSB: At December 31, we have a 41% common equity interest in PSB (46% as of December 31, 2008), comprised of our ownership of 5,801,606 shares of PSBs common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in PSBs underlying operating partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one for one basis into PSB common stock. Our ownership interest was reduced during 2009 as PSB sold 3,833,333 shares of its common stock, of which we purchased 383,333 shares or 10% of the shares issued. 43 At December 31 2009, PSB owned and operated 19.6 million rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states. PSB also manages commercial space owned by the Company and affiliated entities at December 31, 2009 pursuant to property management agreements. Equity in earnings from PSB increased to $35,108,000 in 2009 as compared to $14,325,000 in 2008. This increase was primarily the result of recognizing our pro rata share, $16.3 million, of the benefit that PSB recognized during 2009 as a result of PSBs preferred stock and preferred partnership unit repurchases combined with our $8.3 million pro rata share of reduced depreciation expense. These items were partially offset by our $7.5 million pro rata share of reduced property net operating income. The reduction in property net operating income is primarily the result of reduced property revenues at PSBs facilities due to a 3.2% decline in the weighted average occupancy level for 2009 as compared to 2008. Our future equity income from PSB will be dependent entirely upon PSBs operating results. Our investment in PSB provides us with some diversification into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB. PSBs filings and selected financial information can be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional financial information on PSB. Investment in Shurgard Europe: As described in Note 3 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, due to our March 31, 2008 disposition of a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe, beginning for periods after March 31, 2008 we no longer consolidate the revenues and expenses of Shurgard Europe on our consolidated statements of income, and our pro rata share of the operating results of Shurgard Europe is included in equity in earnings of real estate entities. Selected financial data for Shurgard Europe for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is included in Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. We originally acquired our 100% interest in Shurgard Europe during our merger with Shurgard, which occurred in August 2006. Our primary objective for merging with Shurgard was to acquire Shurgards U.S. domestic assets which accounted for approximately 487 facilities in the U.S. as compared to 160 facilities in Europe at the time of the Shurgard Merger. Subsequent to the Shurgard Merger, management of Public Storage determined that it was in our best interests to reduce our investment in Shurgard Europe. There were many reasons for that determination, most relating to the fact that continued growth of Shurgard Europe would require a significant capital commitment. Movement of capital from Public Storage (in the U.S.) to various European countries would have exposed Public Storage to currency fluctuation risks and to potential tax burdens when Public Storage wished to repatriate its capital investment. Accordingly, in March 2008, we sold 51% of our ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, which helped to limit our capital requirements to continue to grow Shurgard Europe and to limit our exposure to other risks of owning operations in foreign countries. We do not intend to sell any of our remaining interest in Shurgard Europe. In the future, we expect Shurgard Europe to function as a stand alone entity and to fund its capital requirements primarily with its retained operating cash flow, bank borrowings and, to the extent available, public or private equity. This transaction has resulted in the operations of Shurgard Europe having a less significant impact on our operating results, as we have a 49% interest and a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe upon which we receive interest income, rather than the 100% equity interest in Shurgard Europe we held prior to the transaction. Our future operating results will also be impacted by the ultimate returns realized on the reinvestment of the cash proceeds received in connection with this transaction, including the proceeds from the collection of the loan receivable and the timing thereof. At December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europes operations comprise 187 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet. The portfolio consists of 115 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest. Our equity in earnings from Shurgard Europe is comprised of our 49% equity share in the net income of Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of the interest earned with respect to the note receivable from Shurgard Europe, as well as 49% of trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, which are reclassified in consolidation from interest income to equity in earnings of Shurgard Europe. The amount of interest reclassified was approximately $23.9 million in 2009, $17.8 million in 2008 and none in 2007. 44 Equity in earnings from our investment in Shurgard Europe for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $16,269,000 compared to $4,134,000 for the same period in 2008, representing an increase of $12,135,000. This increase includes i) a reduction in our pro rata share of Shurgard Europes depreciation expense, primarily due to declines in tenant intangible amortization, ii) our pro rata share of a reduction in Shurgard Europes third party interest expense (joint ventures in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest recently refinanced their outstanding debt at substantially lower interest rates), (iii) the timing of our disposition of the 51% interest in Shurgard Europe as equity in earnings for 2008 only includes amounts for the period of April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 while the 2009 includes amounts for the entire year, offset by iv) our pro rata share of Shurgard Europes same store properties decline in net operating income, on a constant exchange rate basis, and (v) the effect of a change in the average exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar to 1.393 for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to 1.470 for the same period in 2008. We evaluate the performance metrics of Shurgard Europes Same Store Facilities in order to evaluate the performance of our investment in Shurgard Europe, because the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent the primary driver of our pro rata share of earnings of Shurgard Europe. The Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities represent those 94 facilities that are stabilized and owned since January 1, 2007 and therefore provide meaningful comparisons for 2007, 2008, and 2009. The following table reflects the operating results of these 94 facilities. Selected Operating Data for the 94 facilities operated by Shurgard Europe on a stabilized basis since January 1, 2007 (Europe Same Store Facilities): Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Percentage Change 2008 2007 Percentage Change (Dollar amounts in thousands, except weighted average data, utilizing constant exchange rates) (a) (b) Revenues: Rental income $ 115,785 $ 120,030 (3.5 )% $ 120,030 $ 118,578 1.2 % Late charges and administrative fees collected 1,892 2,018 (6.2 )% 2,018 1,198 68.4 % Total revenues 117,677 122,048 (3.6 )% 122,048 119,776 1.9 % Cost of operations (excluding depreciation and amortization expense): Property taxes 5,661 5,659 0.0 % 5,659 5,485 3.2 % Direct property payroll 13,767 13,852 (0.6 )% 13,852 14,033 (1.3 )% Advertising and promotion 4,662 3,579 30.3 % 3,579 3,772 (5.1 )% Utilities 2,849 2,846 0.1 % 2,846 2,826 0.7 % Repairs and maintenance 3,157 3,353 (5.8 )% 3,353 3,207 4.6 % Property insurance 711 760 (6.4 )% 760 1,131 (32.8 )% Other costs of management 16,902 16,490 2.5 % 16,490 17,636 (6.5 )% Total cost of operations 47,709 46,539 2.5 % 46,539 48,090 (3.2 )% Net operating income (c) $ 69,968 $ 75,509 (7.3 )% $ 75,509 $ 71,686 5.3 % Gross margin 59.5 % 61.9 % (3.9 )% 61.9 % 59.9 % 3.3 % Weighted average for the period: Square foot occupancy (d) 86.1 % 86.9 % (0.9 )% 86.9 % 89.7 % (3.1 )% Realized annual rent per occupied square foot (e)(f) $ 26.06 $ 26.77 (2.7 )% $ 26.77 $ 25.62 4.5 % REVPAF (f)(g) $ 22.44 $ 23.26 (3.5 )% $ 23.26 $ 22.98 1.2 % Weighted average at December 31: Square foot occupancy 85.7 % 84.7 % 1.2 % 84.7 % 88.5 % (4.3 )% In place annual rent per occupied square foot (h) $ 30.03 $ 30.32 (1.0 )% $ 30.32 $ 29.93 1.3 % Total net rentable square feet (in thousands) 5,160 5,160 5,160 5,160 Average Euro to the U.S. Dollar: (a) Constant exchange rates used herein 1.393 1.393 1.393 1.393 Actual historical exchange rates 1.393 1.470 (5.2 )% 1.470 1.370 7.3 % 45 (a) In order to isolate changes in the underlying operations from the impact of exchange rates, the amounts in this table are presented on a constant exchange rate basis. The amounts for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 have been restated using the actual exchange rate for 2009. The exchange rate for the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar averaged 1.393 during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 1.470 and 1.370 for the same periods in 2008 and 2007, respectively. (b) Only the amounts for periods before March 31, 2008 are included in our consolidated financial statements. We include our pro rata share of these operating results for periods after March 31, 2008 in Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities. The amounts incorporated in our financial statements, either consolidated or equity method amounts, are based upon the actual weighted average exchange rates for each period. (c) We present net operating income NOI of the Shurgard Europe Same Store Facilities, which is a non GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization expense. Although depreciation and amortization is a component of GAAP net income, we believe that NOI is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in making decisions with respect to capital allocations, segment performance, and comparing period to period and market to market property operating results. In addition, the investment community utilizes NOI in determining real estate values, and does not consider depreciation expense as it is based upon historical cost. NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after depreciation and amortization in evaluating our operating results. (d) Square foot occupancies represent weighted average occupancy levels over the entire period. (e) Realized annual rent per occupied square foot is computed by annualizing the result of dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the weighted average occupied square feet for the period. Realized annual rent per occupied square foot takes into consideration promotional discounts and other items that reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due. (f) Late charges and administrative fees are excluded from the computation of realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF. Exclusion of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue, by excluding the volatility of late charges, which are dependent principally upon the level of tenant delinquency, and administrative fees, which are dependent principally upon the absolute level of move ins for a period. (g) Realized annual rent per available foot or REVPAF is computed by dividing rental income before late charges and administrative fees by the total available net rentable square feet for the period. (h) In place annual rent per occupied square foot represents annualized contractual rents per occupied square foot without reductions for promotional discounts and excludes late charges and administrative fees. Shurgard Europes operations have been impacted by the same trends in self storage demand that our domestic facilities are facing. However, trends in Europe improved somewhat in the last half of 2009, with year over year revenue declines of 1.9% in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 3.2% in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 and 4.7% in the first half of 2009. Despite the recent improved trends and reduced year over year declines in revenues and net operating income, we expect continued year over year declines in revenues during at least the first quarter of 2010. Shurgard Europe, similar to our Domestic Self Storage segment, has a nominal development pipeline. Accordingly, at least in the short term, we do not expect any significant impact to our earnings from Shurgard Europes development activities. In Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements, we disclose Shurgard Europes consolidated operating results for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Shurgard Europes condensed consolidated operating results include additional facilities that are not Europe Same Store Facilities, and are based upon historical exchange rates rather than constant exchange rates for each of the respective periods. Other Investments: The Other Investments at December 31, 2009 are comprised primarily of our equity in earnings from various limited partnerships that collectively own 19 self storage facilities. Amounts included in the tables above also include our equity in earnings with respect to three facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities, until we acquired the remaining interest we did not own in these entities during 2008, and commenced consolidating these facilities. Our future earnings with respect to the Other Investments will be dependent upon the operating results of the facilities that these entities own. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for the operating results of these 19 facilities under the Other Investments. 46 Ancillary Operations Ancillary revenues and expenses include amounts associated with (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self storage facilities in the U.S., (ii) merchandise sales in the U.S., (iii) commercial property operations, (iv) merchandise sales and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe, and (v) management of facilities for third parties and facilities owned by the Unconsolidated Entities. Commercial property operations are included in our Commercial segment, and the merchandise and tenant reinsurance operations conducted by Shurgard Europe are included in our Europe Self Storage segment. All other ancillary revenues and costs of operations are not allocated to any segment. See Note 11 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our segments and for a reconciliation of these ancillary revenues and cost of operations to our net income. During 2009, we decided to discontinue the operations of our truck rental and containerized businesses. Accordingly, the revenues and expenses of these operations are included in discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. The following table sets forth our ancillary operations as presented on our consolidated statements of income. Year Ended December 31 Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Change 2008 2007 Change (Amounts in thousands) Ancillary Revenues: Tenant reinsurance premiums $ 62,644 $ 57,280 $ 5,364 $ 57,280 $ 50,861 $ 6,419 Commercial 14,982 15,326 (344 ) 15,326 15,101 225 Merchandise and other 29,971 30,902 (931 ) 30,902 32,029 (1,127 ) Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant insurance 4,913 (4,913 ) 4,913 17,490 (12,577 ) Total revenues 107,597 108,421 (824 ) 108,421 115,481 (7,060 ) Ancillary Cost of operations: Tenant reinsurance 9,789 6,734 3,055 6,734 15,879 (9,145 ) Commercial 5,759 6,292 (533 ) 6,292 5,722 570 Merchandise and other 20,463 22,093 (1,630 ) 22,093 25,174 (3,081 ) Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant insurance 1,409 (1,409 ) 1,409 5,186 (3,777 ) Total cost of operations 36,011 36,528 (517 ) 36,528 51,961 (15,433 ) Depreciation commercial operations: 2,958 2,900 58 2,900 2,570 330 Ancillary net income: Tenant reinsurance 52,855 50,546 2,309 50,546 34,982 15,564 Commercial 6,265 6,134 131 6,134 6,809 (675 ) Merchandise and other 9,508 8,809 699 8,809 6,855 1,954 Shurgard Europe merchandise and tenant reinsurance 3,504 (3,504 ) 3,504 12,304 (8,800 ) Total ancillary net income $ 68,628 $ 68,993 $ (365 ) $ 68,993 $ 60,950 $ 8,043 Tenant reinsurance operations: We reinsure policies offered through a non affiliated insurance company against losses to goods stored by tenants, primarily in our domestic self storage facilities. The revenues that we record are based upon premiums that we reinsure. Cost of operations primarily includes claims paid that are not covered by our outside third party insurers, as well as claims adjustment expenses. Cost of operations includes reductions of $2.0 million and $5.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing adjustments to accounting estimates that are not expected to recur. 47 The increase in tenant reinsurance revenues over the past year was attributable to higher rates combined with an increase in the percentage of our existing tenants retaining such policies. Approximately 58% and 53% of our tenants had such policies at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that the level of tenant reinsurance revenues in 2010 may not increase to the same degree as was experienced in 2009 as customer penetration reaches the percentage of tenants that could be expected to retain such policies. The future level of tenant reinsurance revenues is largely dependent upon the number of new tenants electing to purchase policies, the level of premiums charged for such insurance, and the number of tenants that continue participating in the insurance program. Future cost of operations will be dependent primarily upon the level of losses incurred, including the level of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, that occur and affect our properties thereby increasing tenant insurance claims. Commercial operations: We also operate commercial facilities, primarily small storefronts and office space located on or near our existing self storage facilities that are rented to third parties. We do not expect any significant changes in revenues or profitability from our commercial operations. Merchandise sales and other: We sell locks, boxes, and packing supplies at the self storage facilities that we operate. The primary factor impacting the level of merchandise sales is the level of customer traffic at our self storage facilities, including the level of move ins. In addition, to a much lesser extent, we also manage self storage facilities within our existing management infrastructure, for third party owners as well as for the Unconsolidated Entities. Other Income and Expense Items Interest and other income: Interest and other income was $29,813,000 in 2009, $36,155,000 in 2008, and $11,417,000 in 2007. The decrease in 2009 as compared to 2008 is principally due to lower interest income on our cash reserve balances, offset by higher interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe (described below). Interest earned on our cash balances totaled $5.0 million in 2009 as compared to $17.7 million in 2008. This reduction was due primarily to significantly lower interest rates in 2009 as compared to 2008. We have $763.8 million in cash on hand at December 31, 2009 invested primarily in money market funds. Future interest income will depend upon the level of interest rates and the timing of when the cash on hand is ultimately invested; however, based upon current interest rates on our outstanding money market fund investments of approximately 0.2%, earned interest is expected to be minimal. We have a loan receivable, denominated in Euros, from Shurgard Europe totaling 391.9 million ($561.7 million) as of December 31, 2009. Effective October 31, 2009, we extended the maturity date to March 31, 2013, and the rate of interest increased from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum (effective November 1, 2009). In addition, we receive trademark license fees from Shurgard Europe. We recorded interest income with respect to this loan, representing 51% of the amount earned (the remaining 49% is recorded as additional equity in earnings) combined with 51% of the trademark license fees received from Shurgard Europe, aggregating $24.8 million and $18.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. No interest income in connection with the loan or trademark fees was recorded prior to March 31, 2008, as any such income received was fully eliminated in consolidation until March 31, 2008. All other variances in interest income from our note receivable are attributable principally to changes in average exchange rates as well as the change in interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% effective November 1, 2009. Future interest income recorded in connection with this loan will be dependent upon the average outstanding balance as well as the exchange rate of the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar. All such interest has been paid currently when due and we expect the interest to continue to be paid when due with Shurgard Europes operating cash flow. 48 Interest and other income increased in 2008 as compared to 2007 principally as a result of (i) higher average cash balances invested in interest bearing accounts and (ii) interest income with respect to our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe. Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation and amortization expense was $340,233,000, $411,981,000 and $619,598,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decreases in depreciation and amortization expense in 2009 as compared to 2008, and in 2008 as compared to 2007, are due principally to declines in amortization of tenant intangible assets that were acquired in connection with the 2006 Shurgard Merger. Amortization expense with respect to tenant intangible assets was $5,530,000 in 2009, $51,158,000 in 2008 and $247,844,000 in 2007. We expect minimal amortization expense for our existing intangibles during 2010, and future intangible amortization will be dependent upon our future level of acquisition of facilities with existing tenants in place. Effective March 31, 2008, depreciation and amortization ceased on the facilities owned by Shurgard Europe, which was deconsolidated effective March 31, 2008. Included in our depreciation and amortization related to Shurgard Europes facilities was $11,192,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and $52,460,000 for the year ended December 31, 2007. General and administrative expense: General and administrative expense was $35,735,000, $62,809,000, and $59,749,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. General and administrative expense principally consists of state income taxes, investor relations expenses, and corporate and executive salaries. In addition, general and administrative expenses includes expenses that vary depending on our activity levels in certain areas, such as overhead associated with the acquisition and development of real estate facilities, certain expenses related to capital raising and merger and acquisition activities, litigation expenditures, employee severance, share based compensation, and incentive compensation. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes $2,144,000 in ongoing general and administrative expense for Shurgard Europe incurred prior to March 31, 2008 and $27,900,000 in additional incentive compensation incurred related to our disposition of an interest in Shurgard Europe. General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes a) $10,691,000 related to Shurgard Europes ongoing operations, b) $9,600,000 in costs incurred by Shurgard Europe associated with a proposed terminated offering of shares in Shurgard Europe, c) $5,300,000 incurred in connection with the integration of Shurgard and Public Storage, and d) $2,000,000 in costs associated with reorganizing as a Maryland REIT. Following March 31, 2008, we record no further general and administrative expense incurred by Shurgard Europes ongoing operations. We expect ongoing general and administrative expense to approximate $8 million to $10 million per quarter. Interest expense: Interest expense was $29,916,000, $43,944,000 and $63,671,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decreases in interest expense in 2009 and 2008 are due primarily to the deconsolidation of Shurgard Europe effective March 31, 2008, which incurred $6,892,000 and $22,242,000 in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively. Interest expense was also reduced approximately $6 million in 2009 as compared to 2008 due to our early retirement in February 2009 of $110.2 million face amount of senior unsecured debt. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for a schedule of our notes payable balances, principal repayment requirements, and average interest rates. Capitalized interest expense totaled $718,000, $1,998,000 and $4,746,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in connection with our development activities. Foreign Exchange Gain (Loss): Our loan receivable from Shurgard Europe is denominated in Euros and we have not entered into any hedged agreements to mitigate the impact of currency exchange fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro. As a result, the amount of U.S. Dollars we will receive on repayment will depend upon the currency exchange rates at that time. In each period where we expect repatriation of these funds within two years from period end, we record the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan balance from the beginning to the end of the period as a foreign currency gain or loss. We recorded a foreign exchange gain of $9,662,000, a loss of $25,362,000, and a gain of $58,444,000 in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, representing the change in the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the loan due to changes in exchange rates from the beginning to the end of each respective period. The U.S. Dollar exchange rate relative to the Euro was approximately 1.433, 1.409, and 1.472 at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 49 Future foreign exchange gains or losses will be dependent primarily upon the movement of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar, the amount owed from Shurgard Europe and our continued expectation with respect to repaying the loan. Discontinued Operations: During 2009, we discontinued operations in our truck rental and containerized storage businesses. In addition, we disposed of one self storage facility and expect to dispose of one other in connection with condemnation proceedings. We reclassified all of the historical revenues and expenses of these operations from revenues and expenses, into discontinued operations. Included in discontinued operations in 2009 are $3.5 million in truck disposal expenses, an $8.2 million impairment charge on intangible assets incurred in connection with an eminent domain proceeding and $6.0 million of gains on the disposition of the self storage facilities. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have $763.8 million of cash on hand at December 31, 2009, and believe that these funds, together with our internally generated net cash provided by our operating activities will continue to be sufficient to enable us to meet our operating expenses, debt service requirements, capital improvements and distributions requirements to our shareholders for the foreseeable future. Operating as a REIT, our ability to retain cash flow for reinvestment is restricted. In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow must be distributed to our shareholders (see Requirement to Pay Distributions below). However, despite the significant distribution requirements, we have been able to retain a significant amount of our operating cash flow. The following table summarizes our ability to fund capital improvements to maintain our facilities, distributions to the noncontrolling interests, capital improvements to maintain our facilities, and distributions to our shareholders through the use of cash provided by operating activities. The remaining cash flow generated is available to make both scheduled and optional principal payments on debt and for reinvestment. For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Amount in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities (a) $ 1,112,857 $ 1,076,971 $ 1,047,652 Capital improvements to maintain our facilities (62,352 ) (76,311 ) (69,102 ) Remaining operating cash flow available for distributions to equity holders 1,050,505 1,000,660 978,550 Distributions paid to redeemable noncontrolling interests (1,290 ) (1,335 ) (1,092 ) Distribution paid to permanent noncontrolling equity interests (26,977 ) (37,993 ) (40,567 ) Cash from operations allocable to Public Storage shareholders 1,022,238 961,332 936,891 Distributions paid to Public Storage shareholders: Preferred shareholders (232,431 ) (239,721 ) (236,757 ) Equity Shares, Series A shareholders (20,524 ) (21,199 ) (21,424 ) Common shareholders ($2.20 per share for 2009, $2.20 per share regular dividend and $0.60 special dividend in 2008 and $2.00 per share for 2007) (370,404 ) (470,823 ) (338,689 ) Cash from operations available for principal payments on debt and reinvestment (b) $ 398,879 $ 229,589 $ 340,021 50 (a) Represents net cash provided by operating activities for each respective year as presented in our December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. (b) We present cash from operations for principal payments on debt and reinvestment because we believe it is an important measure to evaluate our ongoing liquidity. This measure is not a substitute for cash flows from operations or net cash flows in evaluating our liquidity, ability to repay our debt, or to meet our distribution requirements. Our financial profile is characterized by a low level of debt to total capitalization and a conservative dividend payout ratio with respect to the common shares. We expect to fund our long term growth strategies and debt obligations with (i) cash on hand at December 31, 2009, (ii) internally generated retained cash flows, (iii) depending upon current market conditions, proceeds from the issuance of equity securities, and (iv) in the case of acquisitions of facilities, the assumption of existing debt. In general, our strategy is to continue to finance our growth with permanent capital, either retained operating cash flow or capital raised through the issuance of common or preferred equity to the extent that market conditions are favorable. Historically, we have funded substantially all of our acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for the following reasons: (i) under the REIT structure, a significant amount of operating cash flow needs to be distributed to our shareholders, making it difficult to repay debt with operating cash flow alone, (ii) our perpetual preferred shares have no sinking fund requirement or maturity date and do not require redemption, all of which eliminate future refinancing risks, (iii) after the end of a non call period, we have the option to redeem the preferred shares at any time, which enables us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares with new preferred shares at lower rates if appropriate, (iv) preferred shares do not contain covenants, thus allowing us to maintain significant financial flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements. Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are Baa1 by Moodys and BBB by Standard & Poors. Access to Additional Capital: In addition to cash on hand, we also have a revolving line of credit for borrowings up to $300 million. The line of credit expires in March 2012 and there were no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit at February 26, 2010. We seldom borrow on the line of credit and generally view borrowings on the line as a means to bridge capital needs until we are able to refinance them with permanent capital. Our ability to raise additional capital by issuing our common or preferred securities may not be a viable option at least in the near term due to unfavorable capital market conditions. We are not dependent, however, on raising capital to fund our operations or meet our obligations. Significant requirements on our liquidity and capital resources include: (i) funds to redeem shares of Equity Shares, Series A on April 15, 2010, (ii) debt service requirements, (iii) capital improvements to maintain our facilities, (iv) distribution requirements to our shareholders to maintain our REIT status, (v) acquisition and development commitments and (vi) commitments to provide funding to Shurgard Europe for certain investing and financing activities. Redemption of Equity Shares, Series A: On April 15, 2010, we will be redeeming all of our outstanding shares of Equity Shares, Series A at a cash redemption price of $24.50 per depositary share, or an aggregate of $205.2 million. Since the initial issuance of these securities, the annual distribution paid has been $2.45 per depository share, representing an implied yield of 10%. We plan on using cash on hand to fund the aggregate redemption amount. 51 Debt Service Requirements: At December 31, 2009, outstanding debt totaled approximately $518.9 million. Approximate principal maturities are as follows (amounts in thousands): Unsecured debt Secured debt Total 2010 $ 1,673 $ 11,037 $ 12,710 2011 103,533 27,819 131,352 2012 55,575 55,575 2013 186,460 64,961 251,421 2014 25,400 25,400 Thereafter 42,431 42,431 $ 291,666 $ 227,223 $ 518,889 Our current intention is to repay the debt at maturity and not seek to refinance debt maturities with additional debt. Alternatively, we may prepay debt and finance such prepayments with cash on hand or proceeds from the issuance of preferred or common securities. On February 12, 2009, we acquired approximately $110 million face amount of our existing senior unsecured debt pursuant to a tender offer. The amount paid in the tender offer, approximately $110 million, was substantially less than what would have been paid if we were to repay this debt early subject to the prepayment premiums under the related debt agreements. Our portfolio of real estate facilities is substantially unencumbered. At December 31, 2009, we have 1,902 self storage facilities with an aggregate net book value of approximately $7.0 billion that are unencumbered. Capital Improvement Requirements: During 2010, we expect to incur approximately $80 million for capital improvements. Capital improvements include major repairs or replacements to our facilities, which keep the facilities in good operating condition and maintain their visual appeal to the customer. Capital improvements do not include costs relating to the development or expansion of facilities that add additional net rentable square footage to our portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we incurred capital improvements of approximately $62.4 million. Requirement to Pay Distributions: We have operated, and intend to continue to operate, in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, but no assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed, with certain limited exceptions, on the REIT taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed. We believe we have satisfied the REIT distribution requirement since 1981. Although we have not finalized our 2009 taxable income, we believe that the aggregate distributions paid in 2009 to our shareholders enable us to continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements. Aggregate distributions paid during 2009 totaled $624.7 million, consisting of the following (amounts in thousands: Distributions paid in 2009 Cumulative preferred shareholders $ 232,431 Equity Shares, Series A shareholders 20,524 Common shareholders and restricted share unitholders 371,710 Total REIT qualifying distributions $ 624,665 For 2010, we estimate the annual distribution requirements with respect to our (i) cumulative preferred shares outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $232.4 million, assuming no additional preferred share issuances or redemptions during 2010, and (ii) Equity Shares, Series A shares to be approximately $5.1 million, representing distributions through March 31, 2010. We will be redeeming these securities on April 15, 2010 and no further distributions will be paid for the period subsequent to March 31, 2010. 52 On February 26, 2010, our Board of Trustees declared a regular common dividend of $0.65 per common share, representing an increase of $0.10 per share (an 18% increase) from the previous quarters distribution. Our consistent, long term dividend policy has been to only distribute our taxable income. Taxable income attributable to our common shareholders has increased due to recent purchases of preferred securities and equity stock, as well as reduced property depreciation, offset in part, by declines in operating income. Future changes in our dividend will be impacted by these same factors, as well as property acquisitions. Future distributions with respect to the common shares will continue to be determined based upon our REIT distribution requirements after taking into consideration distributions to the preferred shareholders and will be funded with operating cash flow. We are also obligated to pay distributions to non controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries. During 2009, we paid distributions totaling $9.5 million with respect to preferred partnership units. We expect our annual distribution requirement based upon preferred partnership units outstanding at December 31, 2009, to be approximately $7.3 million on a go forward basis. In addition, we are required to pay distributions to other non controlling interests in our consolidated subsidiaries based upon the operating cash flows of the respective subsidiary less any required reserves for capital expenditures or debt repayment. Such non controlling interests received a total of $18,812,000 in 2009, $17,716,000 in 2008 and $20,047,000 in 2007, which represents our expectations with respect to future distribution levels. Acquisition and Development of Facilities: During 2010, we will continue to seek to acquire self storage facilities from third parties; however, it is difficult to estimate the amount of third party acquisitions we will undertake. We have a minimal development pipeline at December 31, 2009 and have no current plan to expand our development activities. We plan on financing these activities with available cash on hand, the assumption of existing debt, borrowings on our line of credit, or the net proceeds from the issuance of common or preferred securities. European Activities: We have a 49% interest in Shurgard Europe and our institutional partner owns the remaining 51% interest. As of December 31, 2009, Shurgard Europe owed us 391.9 million ($561.7 million at December 31, 2009) pursuant to a loan agreement. Effective, October 31, 2009, the terms of the loan were modified to increase the interest rate from 7.5% to 9.0% per annum and the maturity date was extended from March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2013. All other material terms and covenants remain the same. The loan is unsecured and can be prepaid at anytime without penalty. Shurgard Europe has a 20% interest in two joint ventures (First Shurgard and Second Shurgard). We are committed to provide additional financing to Shurgard Europe to facilitate the acquisition of its partners 80% interest in each of these two joint ventures. If Shurgard Europe acquires its partners 80% interest in either First Shurgard and Second Shurgard and is unable to obtain third party financing to repay the existing loans of the joint ventures, we have agreed to provide additional loans to Shurgard Europe, under the same terms as the our 391.9 million loan, for up to 185 million ($265.2 million as of December 31, 2009). This commitment expires on March 31, 2010 and was originally for 305 million, but was reduced as the result of refinancing one of the joint venture loans. Shurgard Europe has no obligation to acquire these interests, and the acquisition of these interests is contingent on a number of items, including whether we assent to the acquisition. The two joint ventures collectively had approximately 224 million ($321 million) of outstanding debt payable to third parties at December 31, 2009, which is non recourse to Shurgard Europe. One of the joint venture loans, totaling 107 million ($153 million), is due May 2011 and the other joint venture loan, totaling 117 million ($168 million), is due in July 2010. Both joint venture loans are secured by the joint ventures respective facilities, and are not guaranteed by Public Storage, Shurgard Europe or any third party. 53 We also committed to fund up to $88.2 million of additional equity contributions to Shurgard Europe to fund certain investing activities. Our remaining obligation under this commitment totaled $66.4 million at December 31, 2009. Redemption of Preferred Securities: As of December 31, 2009, several series of our preferred securities were redeemable at our option upon at least 30 days notice. These series have annual dividend rates ranging from 6.125% to 7.5% and have an aggregate redemption value of approximately $873 million. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred securities will depend upon many factors including when, or if, market conditions improve such that we can issue new preferred shares at a lower cost of capital than the shares that would be redeemed. Repurchases of Companys Equity and Preferred Securities: Dislocations in capital markets have provided opportunities for the repurchase of our preferred and debt securities. During 2009, we repurchased certain of our Cumulative Preferred Shares in privately negotiated transactions with a liquidation value of $24.6 million for approximately $17.5 million, including accrued dividends, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $1.8 million per year. Also during 2009, we repurchased certain of our Preferred Partnership Units in privately negotiated transactions with a carrying amount of $225 million for approximately $153 million, reducing our ongoing dividend requirement by approximately $14.4 million per year. Our Board of Trustees has authorized the repurchase from time to time of up to 35,000,000 of our common shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. During 2009, we did not repurchase any of our common shares. From the inception of the repurchase program through February 26, 2010, we have repurchased a total of 23,721,916 common shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million. Future levels of common share repurchases will be dependent upon our available capital, investment alternatives, and the trading price of our common shares. These acquisitions were funded with cash on hand. We continue to monitor the existing trading ranges of all our outstanding debt and equity securities for potential opportunities. Contractual Obligations Our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and their impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending December 31 (amounts in thousands): Total 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Long term debt (1) $ 605,557 $ 41,257 $ 154,355 $ 74,722 $ 259,845 $ 28,472 $ 46,906 Operating leases (2) 95,745 6,135 5,561 5,269 5,046 4,998 68,736 Construction commitments (3) 10,055 10,055 Total $ 711,357 $ 57,447 $ 159,916 $ 79,991 $ 264,891 $ 33,470 $ 115,642 (1) Amounts include principal and fixed rate interest payments on our notes payable based on their contractual terms. See Note 6 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements for additional information on our notes payable. (2) We lease land, equipment and office space under various operating leases. Certain leases are cancelable, however, significant penalties would be incurred upon cancellation. Amounts reflected above consider continuance of the lease without cancellation. (3) Includes contractual obligations for development and capital expenditures at December 31, 2009. 54 We have not included any additional funding requirements that we may be required to make to Shurgard Europe as a contractual obligation in the table above, since it is uncertain whether or not we will be required to fund any additional amounts and because such funding is subject to our assent. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, we called for redemption our Equity Shares, Series A. These shares will be redeemed on April 15, 2010 for an aggregate of $205.2 million or $24.50 per share. These amounts are not included in the table above as they were not an obligation at December 31, 2009. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements: At December 31, 2009 we had no material off balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S K 303(a)(4) and the instructions thereto. 55 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk To limit our exposure to market risk, we principally finance our operations and growth with permanent equity capital consisting of retained operating cash flow, capital raised through the issuance of common shares and preferred shares. At December 31, 2009, our debt as a percentage of total equity (based on book values) was 5.7%. Our preferred shares are not redeemable at the option of the holders. These shares, however, are redeemable, after a set period of time, at our option. At December 31, 2009, our Series V, Series W, Series X, Series Y, Series Z, Series A, Series B and Series C preferred shares are currently redeemable by us at our option. Except under certain conditions relating to the Companys qualification as a REIT, the preferred shares are not redeemable by the Company pursuant to its redemption option prior to the dates set forth in Note 8 to our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. Our market risk sensitive instruments include notes payable, which totaled $518,889,000 at December 31, 2009. We have foreign currency exposures related to our investment in Shurgard Europe, which has a book value of $272.3 million at December 31, 2009. We also have a loan receivable from Shurgard Europe, which is denominated in Euros, totaling 391.9 million ($561.7 million) at December 31, 2009. We also have an obligation, in certain circumstances, to loan up to an additional 185 million ($265.2 million) to Shurgard Europe. The table below summarizes annual debt maturities and weighted average interest rates on our outstanding debt at the end of each year and fair values required to evaluate our expected cash flows under debt agreements and our sensitivity to interest rate changes at December 31, 2009 (dollar amounts in thousands). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Fair Value Fixed rate debt $ 12,710 $ 131,352 $ 55,575 $ 251,421 $ 25,400 $ 42,431 $ 518,889 $ 525,883 Average interest rate 5.68 % 5.69 % 5.70 % 5.62 % 5.50 % 5.50 % Variable rate debt (1) $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ Average interest rate (1) Amounts include borrowings under our line of credit, which expires in March 2012. As of December 31, 2009, we have no borrowings under our line of credit. 56 
 
