FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20041022182520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):       October 22, 2004
Registrant's telephone number, including area code       336-424-6000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 5.02(c). Appointment of Principal Officers.
On October 21, 2004, VF issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors appointed Brad Batten, 49, as Vice President and Controller. A copy of VF's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
(c) Exhibits. The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
99 VF Corporation press release dated October 21, 2004.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
     VF Names New VP  Controller
     GREENSBORO, N.C.(BUSINESS WIRE)Oct. 21, 2004VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC) today announced that it has named Brad Batten as Vice President and Controller. Batten rejoins VF after serving at Sara Lee Corporation, a diversified consumer products company with worldwide revenues of $18 billion.
     While at Sara Lee Batten served as Vice President Operations  Intimates and Hosiery Group. He also has served as Vice President & Chief Operating Officer  Intimates Group and Vice President Finance & Chief Financial Officer - - Intimates Group. Prior to these roles at Sara Lee, from 1998 to 2000 Batten served as Vice President & Chief Financial Officer of VF's Intimates business, where he managed financial, strategic planning, credit & collection and information technology functions. Batten has also held senior financial roles at Dawson Consumer Products and Cluett Peabody and Company, Inc. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from the University of Scranton and is a C.P.A.
     About the Company
     VF Corporation is a leader in branded apparel including jeanswear, intimate apparel, sportswear, outdoor products and workwear. Its principal brands include Lee, Wrangler, Riders, Rustler, Vanity Fair, Vassarette, Bestform, Lily of France, Nautica, Earl Jean, John Varvatos, JanSport, Eastpak, The North Face, Vans, Napapijri, Kipling, Lee Sport and Red Kap.
     VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page, www.vfc.com.
     CONTACT: VF Services, Inc. Cindy Knoebel, CFA, 212-841-7141/336-424-6189
     SOURCE: VF Corporation
     "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding VF CORP's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


