FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20040324081502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 9  Regulation FD Disclosure
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure". On March 24, 2004, VF Corporation issued a press release setting forth a revised outlook of operating results for the first quarter of 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit (99.1) and hereby incorporated by reference.
     99.1 Press release issued by VF Corporation on March 24, 2004.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
today updated its first quarter guidance to reflect stronger than expected sales of its products at retail in most of its businesses. The Company now expects the sales increase in the quarter ending April 3, 2004 will be at the high end of its previous guidance of an 8 to 10% increase over prior year levels. The Company also expects earnings per share could increase by 5% versus its prior guidance that EPS would be flat with 2003 levels.
Greensboro, North Carolina  March 24, 2004  VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC)
At the present time, the Company is not revising its guidance for the full year and will provide an update on its first quarter performance and full year outlook when it releases first quarter results on Tuesday, April 27.
Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Management cautions that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important risk factors that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of the Company to differ include, but are not limited to, the overall level of consumer spending for apparel; changes in trends in the segments of the market in which the Company competes; competitive conditions in and financial strength of our customers and of our suppliers; actions of competitors, customers, suppliers and service providers that may impact the Company's business; the availability of new acquisitions that increase shareholder value; our ability to successfully integrate and to achieve sales and earnings growth from new acquisitions; the Company's ability to complete its planned divestitures; terrorist actions; and the impact of economic and political factors in the markets where the Company competes, such as recession or changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, price levels, capital market valuations and other external economic and political factors over which the Company has no control. Investors are also directed to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Statements
VF Corporation is the world's largest apparel company and a leader in jeanswear, intimate apparel, sportswear, workwear and daypacks. Its principal brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,  and .
About the Company
Lee
Wrangler
Riders
Rustler
Vanity Fair
Vassarette
Bestform
Lily of France
Nautica
Earl Jean
John Varvatos
Healthtex
JanSport
Eastpak
The North Face
Lee Sport
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page, www.vfc.com.


