FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20061214082652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
On December 13, 2006, VF Corporation announced plans to voluntarily withdraw the listing of its common stock from NYSE Arca, Inc., formerly the Pacific Exchange. VF's common stock will continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
VF has decided to withdraw its listing from NYSE Arca, Inc. to reduce fees and duplicative administrative requirements associated with dual listings resulting from the NYSE Group's recent merger with Archipelago Holdings, the parent company of NYSE Arca.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 12, 2006, Mackey McDonald, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VF Corporation, requested that the Board of Directors modify his change-in-control agreement, dated December 17, 2004, to delete Section 4(iii)(D)(1) of the agreement that provides for an additional payment to him (the "Excise Tax Gross-Up Payment") such that he would retain an amount, after payment of all taxes, equal to all excise taxes imposed upon payments received in the event of a change-in-control. In response to Mr. McDonald's request, the Board of Directors modified his change-in-control agreement to delete the Excise Tax Gross-Up Payment.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
          The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 

 
today announced plans to withdraw the listing of its common stock from NYSE Arca, Inc., formerly the Pacific Exchange. VF's common stock will continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Greensboro, North Carolina  December 13, 2007  VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC)
VF has decided to withdraw its listing from NYSE Arca, Inc. to reduce fees and duplicative administrative requirements associated with dual listings resulting from the NYSE Group's recent merger with Archipelago Holdings, the parent company of NYSE Arca. The withdrawal is expected to be effective within the next month.
VF does not believe that withdrawing its listing from NYSE Arca, Inc. will have any impact on the liquidity of its stock. NYSE Arca will continue to trade VF's stock on an unlisted trading privilege basis.
VF Corporation is a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel including jeanswear, outdoor products, intimate apparel, image apparel and sportswear. Its principal brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .
About the Company
Lee
Wrangler
Riders
Rustler
Vanity Fair
Vassarette
Bestform
Lily of France
Nautica
John Varvatos
JanSport
Eastpak
The North Face
Vans
, Reef
, Napapijri
, Kipling
, Lee Sport
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page,
.
www.vfc.com


