FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20060417150842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," and Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On April 17, 2006, VF Corporation issued a press release raising its guidance for its first-quarter 2006 earnings. A copy of VF's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(c)     Exhibits.
          The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
     99     VF Corporation press release dated April 17, 2006.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 17, 2006
 

 
announced today that it now expects a 12% to 14% increase in first quarter earnings per share, a substantial improvement from its earlier guidance. Previously, the Company indicated that it expected first quarter earnings per share to be up slightly over the $1.00 per share (diluted) reported in the prior year's quarter before a one-time cumulative effect adjustment of $.10 per share related to the adoption of new accounting rules for stock-based compensation. The Company continues to anticipate a sales increase of approximately 5% in the quarter, in line with its initial guidance.
Greensboro, NC  April 17, 2006  VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC)
According to Mackey J. McDonald, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the higher than expected earnings are due primarily to stronger than anticipated results in the Company's domestic Jeanswear business resulting from improved performance of the brand as well as continued solid results across the Company's Mass and Specialty jeans businesses. He also noted that the Company's Outdoor coalition continued its very strong momentum in the quarter.
Lee
The Company will provide additional details on its first quarter results, and will also update its full year guidance, when it releases first quarter earnings on April 25. The Company will hold a conference call the same afternoon at 2:30 p.m. EST.
The call will be broadcast live over the Internet via www.vfc.com. For those who are unavailable to listen to the live broadcast, a replay will be available shortly after the call on the above web site for two weeks.
Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Statements
Known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements are summarized in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
VF Corporation is a leader in branded apparel including jeanswear, outdoor products, intimate apparel, image apparel and sportswear. Its principal brands include , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .
About the Company
Lee
Wrangler
Riders
Rustler
Vanity Fair
Vassarette
Bestform
Lily of France
Nautica
John Varvatos
JanSport
Eastpak
The North Face
Vans
, Reef
, Napapijri
, Kipling
, Lee Sport
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page, .
www.vfc.com


