FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20070404115509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     VF Corporation ("VF") announced today that, effective April 1, 2007, it completed the sale of its global intimate apparel business to Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. Proceeds of the sale will consist of the previously disclosed $350 million purchase price, plus adjustment for working capital changes. A copy of the press release issued by VF on April 2, 2007, announcing the closing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and made part hereof.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
          The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
          99 VF Corporation press release dated April 2, 2007.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 3, 2007
 

 
a leader in branded lifestyle apparel, announced today that it has completed the sale of its global intimate apparel business to a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. (NYSE: BRK.A and BRK.B). Proceeds of the sale will consist of the previously disclosed $350 million purchase price, plus adjustment for working capital changes. As previously indicated, VF plans to use the proceeds from the sale to repurchase shares in 2007.
Greensboro, NC  April 2, 2007  VF Corporation (NYSE:VFC),
Fruit of the Loom, Inc.,
The intimate apparel business includes such leading brands as and in the U.S. and and in Europe. Fruit of the Loom plans to operate these businesses as Vanity Fair Brands, a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Vanity Fair, Lily of France, Vassarette, Bestform
Curvation
Lou, Gemma
Belcor
About the Company
VF Corporation is a leader in branded lifestyle apparel including jeanswear, outdoor products, image apparel and sportswear. Its principal brands include , , , , , , , , and .
Wrangler
Lee
Riders
Rustler
The North Face
Vans
, Reef
, Napapijri
, Kipling
, Nautica
John Varvatos
JanSport
Eastpak
, Eagle Creek
, Lee Sport
,
Majestic
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page,
.
www.vfc.com


