FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20071220154550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On December 19, 2007, VF Corporation issued a press release reaffirming its guidance for the fourth quarter of 2007. A copy of VF's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 19, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99
), a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel, today reaffirmed its guidance for record fourth quarter revenues and earnings, which were initially provided on October 18, 2007. The Company plans to release its fourth quarter results at the close of the market on February 5, 2008. In addition, the Company will initiate guidance for 2008 and provide a review of its five-year Growth Plan and targets at a company-hosted meeting and web cast on January 9, 2008.
Greensboro, N.C.  December 19, 2007  VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC
"VF's business model is unique  and we're seeing it validated as we successfully navigate through an extraordinary array of challenging cross-currents," said Mackey McDonald, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition to having some of the strongest, most authentic and consumer-connected brands in the world, we're also benefiting from our incredible diversity  across brands, geographies, product categories and channels of distribution." Added Eric Wiseman, President, "We're looking forward to finishing this year on a very strong note and have confidence that we will maintain our momentum into next year and beyond."
Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Statements
Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include VF's reliance on a small number of large customers; the financial strength of VF's customers; changing fashion trends and consumer demand; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its growth strategy; VF's ability to successfully integrate and grow acquisitions; VF's ability to maintain information technology systems; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF's ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF's management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; maintenance by VF's licensees and distributors of the value of VF's brands; the overall level of consumer spending; general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; foreign currency fluctuations; and legal, regulatory, political and economic risks in international markets. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
About VF
VF Corporation is a global leader in lifestyle apparel with a diverse portfolio of jeanswear, outdoor, imagewear, sportswear and contemporary apparel brands. Its principal brands include , , , , , , , , , , and .
Wrangler
Lee
Riders
The North Face
Vans
, Reef
, Eagle Creek
Eastpak
, JanSport
Napapijri
, Nautica
Kipling
, John Varvatos
7 For All Mankind
lucy
Majestic
, Lee Sport
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page,
www.vfc.com
.


