FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20070831143034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
     On August 31, 2007, VF Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, (""), completed its acquisition of Seven For All Mankind, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("") pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated July 26, 2007 (the ""). The aggregate merger consideration is equal to $775.0 million in cash, plus cash and cash equivalents, minus debt and expenses.
VF
Seven For All Mankind
Merger Agreement
     The description of the Merger Agreement contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is qualified entirely by reference to the text of the Merger Agreement, which is incorporated by reference herein from Exhibit 2.1 of VF's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 30, 2007.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
     On August 31, 2007, VF Corporation issued a press release announcing the closing of its acquisition of Seven For All Mankind. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
     The following are furnished as exhibits to this report:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
, a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel, today announced that it has completed its previously announced acquisition of Seven For All Mankind, LLC. The brand, along with VF's recently completed acquisition of the women's active lifestyle brand, will together form the foundation of a new coalition, VF Contemporary Brands. Mike Egeck, in addition to his current role as CEO of Seven For All Mankind, will serve as President of VF Contemporary Brands, reporting to Eric Wiseman, President and Chief Operating Officer of VF Corporation.
Greensboro, N.C.  August 31, 2007  VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC)
7 For All Mankind
lucy
The brand, the nation's leading premium denim-lifestyle brand, is sold in luxury retail stores and high-end specialty boutiques and online at . With current annual revenues of approximately $300 million, the brand has enjoyed rapid growth since it was launched in 2000. The business will remain based in Los Angeles.
7 For All Mankind
www.7forallmankind.com
" positions VF squarely as the leader in the premium denim-lifestyle business in the U.S. and a stronger player internationally. The strength of the brand offers tremendous potential for continued growth, both in new product categories and through the addition of owned retail stores," said VF Corporation Chairman and CEO Mackey J. McDonald. "The and brands form an excellent nucleus for our new Contemporary Brands coalition, which we view as a new growth platform for VF that we will build with additional brands over time."
7 For All Mankind
7 For All Mankind
lucy
"This is an exciting time for the brand. With access to VF's strong infrastructure of resources we will be able to supercharge our growth initiatives. We are confident that Seven For All Mankind will evolve the category and continue to remain the benchmark of excellence in the premium denim industry," said Egeck.
7 For All Mankind
VF continues to expect that total revenues of its new Contemporary Brands coalition will approximate $125 million in 2007, reflecting a partial year of sales from both Seven For All Mankind and lucy. The effect on earnings per share in 2007 is expected to be neutral.
Seven For All Mankind launched the premium denim craze in the United States in the Fall of 2000. The Los Angeles based brand quickly earned critical acclaim and an immediate following for its innovative use of fits, fabrics, and finishes in denim. The company continues to grow and evolve as a true denim lifestyle brand, expanding its product line to include sportswear, handbag and footwear collections, and kids. The brand is currently sold at luxury retail stores such as Barneys New York, Neiman Marcus, and Saks Fifth Avenue as well as high end specialty boutiques in over 80 countries throughout the world. For more information about Seven For All Mankind, please visit
About Seven For All Mankind, LLC
7 For All Mankind
www.7forallmankind.com
 
VF Corporation is a leader in branded lifestyle apparel including jeanswear, outdoor products, image apparel and sportswear. Its principal brands include , , , , , , , , , , , and .
About VF
Wrangler
Lee
Riders
The North Face
Vans
, Reef
, Napapijri
, Kipling
, Nautica
7 For All Mankind
John Varvatos
JanSport
lucy
Eastpak
, Eagle Creek
Lee Sport
Majestic
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page,
www.vfc.com
.


