FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20081017112855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
V.F. Corporation
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition, and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 17, 2008, VF Corporation issued a press release setting forth its third quarter 2008 earnings.  A copy of VFs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
VF Announces Record Third Quarter Revenues and EPS and Increases Dividend
Revenues increase 6.4% to $2.2 billion
Gross margins expand to 44.4% from 43.9%
Earnings from continuing operations up 13% to $2.10 per share, including a net benefit of $.07 from unusual items
Continue to expect record 4Q and full year revenues and earnings; reducing 4Q guidance to reflect current market challenges
Raising quarterly dividend to $.59 per share from $.58 per share
Information regarding VF
s third quarter conference call webcast today at 8:30 a.m. can be found at the end of this release.
GREENSBORO, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 17, 2008--, a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel, today announced record results for the third quarter of 2008. All per share amounts are presented on a diluted basis and, unless otherwise noted, reflect continuing operations.
VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC)
Third quarter revenues rose over 6% to a record $2,206.6 million, compared with $2,073.2 million in the third quarter of 2007. Due primarily to the continued deterioration in market conditions, as well as the impact of the strengthening dollar on foreign currency translations, this increase was below our prior expectation for 9% growth in revenues. Income from continuing operations in the current quarter was $233.9 million, compared with $209.3 million in the prior years quarter. Earnings per share from continuing operations reached $2.10 in the third quarter, compared with $1.86 last year. Current period results included a net benefit of $.07 per share from unusual items. Net favorable income tax adjustments benefited earnings by $.14 per share, while charges for cost reduction initiatives and for costs for a duty and tax issue related to a recent acquisition negatively impacted earnings by $.07 per share.
For the first nine months of 2008, revenues were up 9% to a record $5,730.5 million from $5,264.2 million. Income from continuing operations increased 8% to $486.9 million, compared with $449.2 million in the prior year period. Earnings per share from continuing operations were up 10% to $4.37.
The achievement of another quarter of record revenues and earnings is a tremendous accomplishment by our brands and businesses given the challenging market conditions, said Eric Wiseman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We remain confident in our business model, which is built on a strong foundation of diversity across geographies, products and channels of distribution and supported by some of the best-known and most powerful apparel brands in the world.
He continued, However, global market conditions have continued to deteriorate beyond what we could have anticipated, with a marked change particularly during the last several weeks. While our brand portfolio is healthy, general economic conditions are not, necessitating that we take a much more conservative stance toward our fourth quarter guidance. Despite this additional caution, we continue to look forward to record revenues and earnings in the fourth quarter, and to delivering our sixth consecutive year of record performance in 2008.
Third Quarter Coalition Performance
Outdoor
Our Outdoor coalition continued its positive momentum, with revenues up 12% in the quarter and strong growth in both our domestic and international businesses. On a global basis, revenues of , , , and brands each grew at double-digit rates. Our two largest Outdoor brands, and , grew revenues 15% and 11% in the quarter, respectively. We opened a total of 14 stores during the quarter, with new stores added for our , , and brands.
The North Face
Vans
Kipling
, Reef
Eastpak
Napapijri
The North Face
Vans
Vans
The
North Face
Napapijri
Kipling
Outdoor operating income rose 17% while operating margins expanded by nearly a full percentage point to 20.8%.
We continue to anticipate a strong, mid-teen revenue gain in the fourth quarter and healthy increases in operating income and margins for our Outdoor coalition.
Jeanswear
Total Jeanswear revenues declined 2% in the current quarter, with a slight gain in our international business offset by lower revenues in our domestic jeans business. Our Mass business in the U.S. continued to perform well in the current environment, with revenues flat in the quarter. Our businesses in Asia and Latin America continued to exhibit healthy growth, while our European business declined slightly reflecting increasingly difficult market conditions.
Jeanswear operating margins remained healthy at 16.5% in the quarter, but were down from prior year levels reflecting, in part, $2.4 million in expenses related to cost reduction initiatives.
New programs in our , and brands in the U.S. in the fourth quarter have shown positive early results and were continuing our focus on driving product innovation across all brands and channels of distribution; however, given current economic conditions, we expect that our global Jeanswear revenues will show a low single digit percentage decline in the fourth quarter. We also expect a decline in operating margins due to investments in advertising, a fashion-forward new product mix and heightened promotional activity designed to support retail sales.
Wrangler
Lee
Riders
Sportswear
Revenues of our Sportswear coalition dipped 5% in the quarter. brand revenues declined in the quarter reflecting in part the exit of our womens wholesale sportswear business, in addition to challenging overall conditions in department stores. The momentum in our U.S. and businesses continued in the quarter, with both achieving double-digit revenue gains.
Nautica
Kipling
John Varvatos
Sportswear operating margins improved in the quarter, reaching double-digit levels despite the inclusion of $1.5 million in expenses related to recent cost reduction actions.
Looking forward, Sportswear revenues should be flat to up slightly in the fourth quarter, with continued improvement in operating margins over both prior year levels and those achieved in the third quarter.
Contemporary Brands
Revenues of our Contemporary Brands coalition, which consists of the and brands acquired in August 2007, exceeded $100 million in the quarter. On a comparable basis reflecting a full quarter, revenues rose 12%, driven by continued growth in both our and brands.
7 For All Mankind
lucy
7 For All Mankind
lucy
Operating income in the quarter included a $6 million charge related to the aforementioned tax and duty matters, which arose prior to our acquisition of the brand.
7 For All Mankind
For the fourth quarter, we expect mid-single digit revenue growth, with comparisons impacted by the exit of a low margin, customer-specific program that had been included in our Seven For All Mankind business. Operating income and margins are both expected to be above prior year levels. Full year revenues should approximate $400 million in 2008.
Imagewear
Imagewear revenues declined 3%, with low single digit declines in both our Image and Activewear businesses. Imagewear operating margins rose in the quarter with operating income essentially flat with the 2007 period.
Our Imagewear business is also not immune to current economic pressures; accordingly, fourth quarter revenues and operating income are both expected to post slight declines from prior year levels.
We continued to experience strong top line performance in both our international and direct-to-consumer businesses in the third quarter. Our international revenues increased 22% in the quarter and represented 34% of total revenues. For the first nine months of 2008, international revenues increased 21%. Retail revenues increased 12% in the quarter and represented 14% of total VF revenues. Retail revenues of ourand brands each grew at double-digit rates. Retail revenues in the first nine months of 2008 have grown by 16%. At the end of the quarter, we had 662 owned retail stores, and we are on track to open approximately 90 stores this year.
Vans
, The North Face
, Kipling
, John Varvatos
, Napapijri
, lucy
Lee
Our focus on controlling costs and inventories clearly benefited our results this quarter. Gross margins rose 50 basis points, reflecting healthy growth in many of our lifestyle brands and continued expansion in our retail and international businesses. Operating margins were 15.9% and were relatively flat with those in the prior years quarter; however, margins in the current period included a 50 basis point impact from the aforementioned cost reduction initiatives and charge for taxes and duties.
Our financial liquidity remains solid. Cash and equivalents were $226 million at the end of the quarter and we expect solid cash flow from operations of $650 to $700 million in 2008. Considering the strong seasonal cash flow of our fourth quarter, we anticipate that all of our outstanding commercial paper, which represents most of our short-term borrowing obligations, will be repaid by year-end. In addition, we have $1.3 billion available in domestic and international lines of credit through a strong, diversified group of domestic and international lenders. Our balance sheet is in excellent condition and we have no long-term debt repayments due until October 2010. Our debt to total capital ratio was 28.8% at the end of September and should approximate 23% by year-end. Reflecting our focus on tight inventory control, inventories were up only 4% from the prior years third quarter.
Outlook
We continue to anticipate record fourth quarter revenues and earnings per share. However, the month of September -- particularly the second half -- marked a turning point in market conditions, with a significant deepening of the global financial crisis and worsening economic conditions taking a heavy toll on consumer confidence and spending in many markets around the world. Accordingly, we have reduced our expectations for the quarter and now anticipate a 3 to 4% rise in revenues and a 1 to 5% increase in earnings per share. Our previous guidance was for revenue and earnings per share increases of 8% and 20%, respectively.
While admittedly difficult, todays environment is creating opportunities for strong companies with strong brands, said Mr. Wiseman. In fact, were planning higher spending in both advertising and product development in the fourth quarter, as we believe this is the right time to invest behind our brands to support their continued long-term growth.
We are pleased by the fact that we continue to expect record revenues and earnings this year, considering all the challenges of 2008 and our more conservative outlook for the fourth quarter. Full year revenues are now expected to rise 7 to 8% while earnings per share should rise approximately 8 to 9%.
Clearly, there remains a great deal of uncertainty about where markets are headed, in both the short and long-term, said Mr. Wiseman. We will continue to plan our business cautiously, manage both costs and inventories aggressively, and focus our efforts on superior short-term execution while we invest and build for the future.
Dividend Increased
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.59 per share, an increase of $.01. The dividend is payable on December 19, 2008 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 9, 2008. This will mark the 36th consecutive year of higher dividend payments to shareholders.
Webcast Information
VF will hold its third quarter conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. ET. Interested parties should call 1-800-432-7890 domestic, or 1-913-312-0827 international, to access the call.
You may also access this call via the Internet at .
www.vfc.com
A replay will be available through October 31 and can be accessed by dialing 1-888-203-1112
domestic, and 1-719-457-0820 international.
The pass code is 4672357.
A replay also can be accessed at the Companys web site at .
www.vfc.com
Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Statements
Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include VF's reliance on a small number of large customers; the financial strength of VF's customers; changing fashion trends and consumer demand; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its growth strategy; VF's ability to grow its international and direct-to-consumer businesses; VF's ability to successfully integrate and grow acquisitions; VF's ability to maintain the strength and security of its information technology systems; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF's ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF's management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; maintenance by VF's licensees and distributors of the value of VF's brands; the overall level of consumer spending; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; foreign currency fluctuations; and legal, regulatory, political and economic risks in international markets. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
About VF
VF Corporation is a global leader in lifestyle apparel with a diverse portfolio of jeanswear, outdoor, imagewear, sportswear and contemporary apparel brands. Its principal brands include and .
Wrangler
, Lee
, Riders
, The North Face
, Vans
, Reef
, Eagle Creek
, Eastpak
, JanSport
, Napapijri
, Nautica
, Kipling
, John Varvatos
, 7 For All Mankind
, lucy
, Majestic
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page, .
www.vfc.com
CONTACT: VF Services, Inc. Cindy Knoebel, CFA VP, Financial & Corporate Communications 212-841-7141/336-424-6189


