FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20080109120807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On January 9, 2008, VF Corporation issued a press release raising its five-year growth plan targets and announcing 2008 guidance. A copy of VF's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 9, 2008
 

 
), a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel, is raising its long-term revenue, operating margin and earnings per share growth targets. The new targets reflect the Company's confidence in its vision and strategies, which have been designed to drive superior returns to shareholders. The Company is also establishing its guidance for 2008 revenues and earnings, confirming its outlook for another record year in both. Details of the new Growth Plan targets are being presented to investors today at a meeting and webcast that will commence at 8:30 a.m. ET. Information regarding the webcast can be found at the end of this release.
Greensboro, NC  January 9, 2008  VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC
"We are committed to delivering growth and focused on driving total shareholder return, with confidence that we have the brands, strategies and talent to achieve both on a sustainable, long-term basis," said Eric C. Wiseman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This is a tremendously exciting day for us, as we share our vision for a VF that is bigger, more international, more diversified and more profitable."
"Today, we are delighted to announce that our outlook for growth and profitability is stronger than ever, thanks to the foundation built by a leadership team with an unwavering commitment to performance excellence and the ability to execute in the face of changing market and economic conditions," said Wiseman.
Five-Year Growth Plan Targets
Highlights of the Plan include:
 
2008 should be another very strong year of growth in both revenues and earnings, right in line with our newly established targets. We are anticipating revenue growth of 9% and earnings per share growth of 10%, excluding the impact of any new acquisitions. This will represent our sixth consecutive year of record revenues and profits.
2008 Guidance
"We're bullish about our prospects for 2008, despite the sharp downturn in investor sentiment surrounding many consumer-focused sectors. Not only do we expect to wrap up 2007 with a great fourth quarter, as previously announced on December 19, but we look forward to continuing our momentum in 2008 with another year of record performance," concluded Wiseman.
VF will hold a webcast today at 8:30 a.m. ET. You may access this webcast via the Internet at .
Webcast Information
www.vfc.com
Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
Cautionary Statement on Forward-looking Statements
Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include VF's reliance on a small number of large customers; the financial strength of VF's customers; changing fashion trends and consumer demand; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its growth strategy; VF's ability to grow its international and direct-to-consumer businesses; VF's ability to successfully integrate and grow acquisitions; VF's ability to maintain the strength and security of its information technology systems; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF's ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF's management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; maintenance by VF's licensees and distributors of the value of VF's brands; the overall level of consumer spending; general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; foreign currency fluctuations; and legal, regulatory, political and economic risks in international markets. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
VF Corporation is a global leader in lifestyle apparel with a diverse portfolio of jeanswear, outdoor, imagewear, sportswear and contemporary apparel brands. Its principal brands include , , , , , , , , , , and .
About VF
Wrangler
Lee
Riders
The North Face
Vans
, Reef
, Eagle Creek
Eastpak
, JanSport
Napapijri
, Nautica
Kipling
, John Varvatos
7 For All Mankind
lucy
Majestic
Red Kap
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page,
www.vfc.com
.


