FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20101215141351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
     On December 15, 2010, VF Corporation issued a press release respecting its brand business. A copy of VF's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
The North Face
     In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   December 15, 2010
 

Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
brand presented its five-year vision and strategies for growth at an investor meeting today in New York City. Based in California, The North Face is dedicated to enabling exploration through the design of premier and technical products that meet the specific needs of skiers and snowboarders, climbers, runners, hikers, backpackers, and mountain enthusiasts around the world.
New York, NY  December 15, 2010  VF Corporation's (NYSE: VFC)
The North Face
Steve Rendle, President of VF's Outdoor Americas Coalition and President of The North Face, stated that the brand will build upon its authentic, 40-year heritage and commitment to premium and technical outdoor gear to maintain its position as the global outdoor leader. The North Face is targeting a five-year compounded annual growth rate in revenues of 16% to reach $3 billion by 2015.
Strategies to deliver $1.6 billion in revenue growth over the next five years include:
 
Product and Marketing Leadership
At the heart of product and marketing strategies is its team of 70+ elite athletes globally, whose experience using our products in extreme conditions is the base for the brand's technical heritage and a source of inspiration for consumers around the world.
The North Face
The North Face sponsors some of the most prestigious events and expeditions in the world, including:
The North Face product strategy is athlete-tested and expedition-proven. We partner with the world's most innovative textile companies to develop proprietary and branded materials that deliver specific product solutions for specific consumer activities.
One current example of product innovation is the Kishtwar jacket, introduced this Fall, that incorporates an exclusive new fabric, Polartec Power Shield Pro, which delivers the best combination of weather protection and breathability ever offered in a single fabric. Kishtwar jacket was awarded "Gear of the Year" by magazine.
The North Face
The North Face
Outside
To drive greater awareness of the brand's unique stories and products, investments in marketing increased 45% in 2010. This increase is delivering over 1.8 billion media impressions in the U.S. alone, and supporting continued development of the brand's digital strategy. A media and TV campaign to promote the brand's presence during the 2011 Winter X Games was launched in November, continuing through January.
"In 2010 VF's Outdoor & Action Sports Coalition will comprise more than 40% of VF's total revenues and we expect these will continue to be our fastest growing businesses over the coming years. The power and potential of brand will be a key driver of our growth," said Eric Wiseman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VF Corporation. He continued, "The North Face is connecting
The North Face
 
with its customers in innovative ways and leveraging the full strength of the brand to inspire and enable the next generation of outdoor enthusiasts."
Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include the overall level of consumer spending on apparel; general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; VF's reliance on a small number of large customers; the financial strength of VF's customers; changing fashion trends and consumer demand; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its growth strategy; VF's ability to grow its international and direct-to-consumer businesses; VF's ability to successfully integrate and grow acquisitions; VF's ability to maintain the strength and security of its information technology systems; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF's ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF's management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; maintenance by VF's licensees and distributors of the value of VF's brands; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; foreign currency fluctuations; and legal, regulatory, political and economic risks in international markets. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Statement on Forward Looking Statements
About VF Corporation
VF Corporation is a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel with more than 30 brands, including , , , , , , and .
Wrangler
The North Face
Lee
Vans, Nautica
7 For All Mankind
Eagle Creek
Eastpak, Ella Moss, JanSport, lucy, John Varvatos, Kipling, Majestic, Napapijri, Red Kap, Reef, Riders
Splendid
VF Corporation's press releases, annual report and other information can be accessed through the Company's home page,
www.vfc.com
.


