FILE:VFC/VFC-8K-20100722070538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
V.F. Corporation
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
   
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
   
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
   
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition, and Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 22, 2010, VF Corporation issued a press release setting forth its second quarter 2010 earnings.  A copy of VFs press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and hereby incorporated by reference.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
VF Announces 47% Increase in Second Quarter Earnings Per Share and Raises Guidance
2Q EPS increases 47% to record $1.00
2Q revenues up 7%
2Q gross margins reach record 47.1%
Raising 2010 revenue, EPS and cash flow guidance
Cash flow from operations now expected to approximate $850 million
Information regarding VFs second quarter conference call webcast today at 8:30 a.m. ET can be found at the end of this release.
GREENSBORO, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 22, 2010--, a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel, today announced results for the second quarter of 2010. All per share amounts are presented on a diluted basis.
VF Corporation (NYSE: VFC)
Second quarter revenues rose 7% to $1,594.1 million from $1,485.6 million in the second quarter of 2009. Net income and earnings per share reached record levels in the quarter, with each increasing by 47%. Net income rose to $110.8 million or $1.00 per share, compared with $75.5 million or $.68 per share in the 2009 quarter.
For the first half of 2010, revenues increased 4% to $3,344.0 million from $3,211.1 million in the 2009 period. Net income rose 55% to $274.4 million from $176.5 million, while earnings per share also increased 55% to $2.47 from $1.59. Foreign currency translation rates benefitted earnings by $.06 per share in the first half of 2010.
This was another outstanding quarter: revenues grew across all coalitions, gross margins reached record levels and earnings per share hit an all-time high, said Eric C. Wiseman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. While current indicators point to a pause in the economic recovery, strong, highly profitable brands with compelling products that speak to consumers needs can be successful regardless of the external environment. Our outstanding and diversified brand portfolio continues to perform exceptionally well and we look forward to a strong second half.
Second Quarter Business Review
Our Outdoor & Action Sports businesses achieved record revenues, operating income and operating margins in the second quarter. Global revenues rose 12% with strong increases in both our Americas and international businesses. Revenue growth in Asia was particularly strong, rising 28% in the quarter. Global revenues of and brands grew 12% and 24%, respectively. Total direct-to-consumer revenues for our Outdoor & Action Sports businesses rose 13% in the quarter, with double-digit growth in , and brands.
Outdoor & Action Sports:
The North Face
Vans
The North Face
Vans
lucy
Operating income rose by 35%, with operating margins increasing by more than two full percentage points to nearly 14% in the quarter, despite significant increases in marketing and other brand-building investments.
Our global Jeanswear business resumed growth in the quarter, with revenues rising 2%. Domestic revenues rose 5% with growth in all three major businesses  Mass Market, Lee and Western Specialty. We were especially pleased with the 6% increase in our Mass Market business, driven by continued strength in our core and businesses. Revenues of our brand in the U.S. rose 2% in the quarter and revenues in our Western Specialty business increased 5%. International jeans revenues declined 5% due primarily to the exit of our mass business in Europe. Solid growth continued in other international markets including Mexico, South America and Canada.
Jeanswear:
Wrangler
Riders
Lee
Operating income increased 40%, with a significant increase in operating margins to 17% in the quarter.
Our Sportswear business also resumed growth in the quarter, with revenues rising 5%. Revenues of our brand increased 4% with a double-digit increase in the brands wholesale business with department stores. brand revenues in the U.S. increased 17% in the quarter, reflecting the successful launch of a new, exclusive program with Macys. The improvements in profitability achieved in the past several quarters continued in the second quarter, with operating income and operating margins improving substantially over those of the prior years quarter.
Sportswear:
Nautica
Kipling
Revenues of our Contemporary Brands coalition, which consists of the , , and brands, rose 18%, driven by double-digit growth across all brands.
Contemporary Brands:
7 For All Mankind
John Varvatos
Splendid
Ella Moss
Operating income rose 12%, with a slight decline in operating margins reflecting higher brand spending as well as investments in new retail stores.
7 For All Mankind
As anticipated, our Imagewear business rebounded in the quarter, with revenues rising 8% driven by growth in both our Image and Licensed Sports Apparel businesses. Operating income rose 36% in the quarter with operating margins improving by 250 basis points to 12%.
Imagewear:
Gross Margins Reach Record Level in Quarter
Second quarter gross margins reached record levels, rising 320 basis points to an all-time high of 47.1%. As in the first quarter, this substantial improvement was driven by three primary factors: 1) lower product costs; 2) continued expansion and improved gross margins in our retail stores; and 3) generally clean inventories across our businesses. Operating margins rose to 10.6% from 8.1%, while marketing spending increased 19% as we continued to implement a focused program of investment spending behind our strongest and most profitable brands.
Expansion in International and Direct-to-Consumer Businesses
Our international and direct-to-consumer businesses remain important long-term drivers of both organic growth and margin expansion. During the quarter, international revenues increased 6% on a constant currency basis driven by strong growth in our Outdoor & Action Sports and Contemporary Brands businesses. Our momentum in Asia continued in the quarter, with revenues rising 26% reflecting double-digit growth in , and brands.
The North Face
Vans
7 For All Mankind
Our direct-to-consumer revenues increased 7%, driven by new store openings in the quarter. The direct-to-consumer businesses of , and brands each achieved double-digit revenue gains in the period. We opened a total of 25 stores across our brands in the quarter and 41 stores year-to-date, bringing the number of owned retail stores to 768 at the end of the quarter. We remain on track to open a total of 80 to 90 stores this year.
The North Face
Vans
, 7 For All Mankind
lucy
Strong Balance Sheet
Cash and equivalents were $540 million at the end of the quarter and inventories declined 10% from prior year levels. We continue to expect a very strong year of cash flow generation, which is now expected to approximate $850 million. Year-to-date we have spent $318 million to repurchase 4 million shares, which is one million shares higher than indicated in our previous guidance.
2010 Outlook: Expecting Record EPS
Based on strengthening trends across our businesses  and in particular in those areas where we have increased our marketing spending  we now expect revenues to increase 4 to 5% in 2010 compared with our prior guidance of an increase of 3 to 4%. The new guidance includes a negative 1% impact on revenues from foreign currency translation due to the decline in the value of the euro since our prior guidance in April. On a constant currency basis revenues are expected to rise 5 to 6%.
We are also raising our earnings per share guidance to $6.10 per share, versus our previous guidance of $5.90 per share. The new guidance, which includes a negative impact from foreign currency translation of $.04, represents an increase of 18% over 2009 earnings per share of $5.16 (before impairment charge). On a GAAP basis, earnings per share are now expected to increase 48% from the $4.13 reported in 2009.
The revised guidance reflects our expectation for an increase of approximately 5% in second half revenues versus 2009, compared with a 4% increase in first half revenues. Gross margins in the second half of 2010 should be above prior year levels. An increase in SG&A in the period will reflect the timing of higher investment spending in our brands. Of the total $85 million in planned spending this year, $65 million will occur in the second half of the year. Also included in our guidance for second half earnings is a negative impact of $.10 per share from foreign currency translation, with most occurring in the third quarter.
For the full year, we expect gross margins will reach record levels, slightly exceeding 46%. Operating margins should improve substantially as well, despite the incremental $85 million in brand investments.
Concluded Mr. Wiseman, I can think of no better way to demonstrate our confidence in the strength of our brands than by continuing to invest behind their global growth potential. We look forward to reaping the benefits of these investments this year in the form of strong revenue growth, record gross margins and all-time high earnings.
Dividend Declared
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.60 per share, payable on September 20, 2010 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 10, 2010.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release contains constant currency financial information, which is a measure of financial performance that is not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). An explanation of management's use of this non-GAAP financial information is described in the supplemental financial information beginning on page 10.
Statement on Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting VF and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Potential risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results of operations or financial condition of VF to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements in this release include the overall level of consumer spending on apparel; general economic conditions and other factors affecting consumer confidence; disruption and volatility in the global capital and credit markets; VF's reliance on a small number of large customers; the financial strength of VF's customers; changing fashion trends and consumer demand; increasing pressure on margins; VF's ability to implement its growth strategy; VF's ability to grow its international and direct-to-consumer businesses; VF's ability to successfully integrate and grow acquisitions; VF's ability to maintain the strength and security of its information technology systems; stability of VF's manufacturing facilities and foreign suppliers; continued use by VF's suppliers of ethical business practices; VF's ability to accurately forecast demand for products; continuity of members of VF's management; VF's ability to protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights; maintenance by VF's licensees and distributors of the value of VF's brands; fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and contracted products; foreign currency fluctuations; and legal, regulatory, political and economic risks in international markets. More information on potential factors that could affect VF's financial results is included from time to time in VF's public reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including VF's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
About VF
VF Corporation is a global leader in branded lifestyle apparel with more than 30 brands, including , , , , , , and .
Wrangler
The North Face
Lee
Vans
, Nautica
7 For All Mankind
Eagle Creek
Eastpak
, Ella Moss
, JanSport
, John Varvatos
, Kipling
, lucy
, Majestic
, Napapijri
, Red Kap
, Reef
, Riders
Splendid
Webcast Information
VF will hold its second quarter conference call and webcast today at 8:30 a.m. ET. Interested parties should call 1-877-741-4248 domestic, or 1-719-325-4765 international, to access the call.
You may also access this call via the Internet at .
www.vfc.com
A replay will be available through July 29, 2010 and can be accessed by dialing 1-888-203-1112 domestic, and 1-719-457-0820 international.
The pass code is 4176432.
A replay also can be accessed at the Companys web site at .
www.vfc.com
CONTACT: VF Services Cindy Knoebel, CFA, (212) 841-7141/(336) 424-6189 VP, Financial & Corporate Communications
cindy_knoebel@vfc.com


