Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The information in response to this item is incorporated herein by reference to the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition on pages 18 through 25 of the 2012 Annual Report. Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt, and existing and future issuances of floating rate debt. Primary exposures include U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR, and commercial paper rates. From time to time, we use interest rate swaps and forward starting interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to interest rate changes, to reduce the volatility of our financing costs, and to achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating rate debt, based on current and projected market conditions. Generally under these swaps, we agree with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed rate and floating rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. In January 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap transactions converting our $1.3 billion 4.875% fixed rate notes to a floating interest rate based on the six month LIBOR in arrears plus a constant spread. In May 2011, we entered into two additional interest rate swap transactions converting $250 million 5.25% fixed rate notes to a floating interest rate based on the six month LIBOR in arrears plus a constant spread. In March 2012, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with the same two counterparties converting an additional $250 million of its 5.25% fixed rate notes to a floating interest rate based on the one month LIBOR in arrears plus a constant spread. All swap termination dates coincide with the respective note maturity dates. In July 2012, the Company entered into a forward starting interest rate swap with two counterparties locking in the then current interest rate on $350 million of its anticipated debt issuance in connection with the Alliance Boots transaction. In August 2012, two additional swaps totaling $650 million were entered into with four different counterparties, hedging the same anticipated debt instrument, for a total of $1.0 billion. In September 2012, the Company issued $4.0 billion in notes, which terminated all forward starting interest rate swaps. The proceeds and gains resulting from the swaps were immaterial. These financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. On August 31, 2012, we had $4.8 billion in long term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. A one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates would increase or decrease the annual interest expense we recognize and the cash we pay for interest expense by approximately $48 million. In conjunction with the September 2012 notes issuance we refinanced $3.0 billion of the $4.8 billion outstanding floating rate long term debt at August 31, 2012. This refinancing included $550 million of floating rate notes which accrue interest at the rate equal to the three month U.S. dollar LIBOR as determined at the beginning of each quarterly period, plus 0.500%. The remaining notes that were part of the refinancing were at fixed rates. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the three month U.S. dollar LIBOR would increase or decrease the annual interest expense we recognize and the cash we pay for interest expense on these floating rate notes by approximately $6 million. In connection with our Purchase and Option Agreement with Alliance Boots and the transactions contemplated thereby, our exposure to foreign currency risks, primarily with respect to the British pound sterling, and to a lesser extent the Euro and certain other foreign currencies, is expected to increase. We are exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the U.S. dollar as a result of our 45% interest in Alliance Boots GmbH, which we account for using the equity method of accounting on a one month lag. Foreign currency forward contracts and other derivative instruments may be used from time to time in some instances to hedge in full or in part certain risks relating to foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, intercompany transactions, and in connection with acquisitions, joint ventures or investments outside the United States. As of August 31, 2012 and August 31, 2011, we did not have any outstanding foreign exchange derivative instruments. 
 
