FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20020731170954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) July 31, 2002 priceline.com Incorporated - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 0-25581 06-1528493 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (State or other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal office) (zip code) N/A - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. On July 31, 2002, priceline.com Incorporated announced that its board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $40 million of the company's common stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. In addition, priceline.com announced that Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited and Hutchison Whampoa Limited, who together own approximately 31% of priceline.com's outstanding common stock, had informed priceline.com that they may purchase up to an additional $40 million of priceline.com common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. Whether and when to initiate and/or complete any purchase of common stock and the amount of common stock purchased will be determined by each company in its complete discretion. Any repurchase by the company may or may not occur simultaneously or be coordinated with any purchases of common stock by Cheung Kong and Hutchison Whampoa. As of June 30, 2002, there were approximately 230 million shares of priceline.com common stock issued and outstanding. On July 31, 2002, priceline.com announced the promotion of several executives and the corresponding re-alignment of priceline.com's operating and management structure. The information set forth in this paragraph is qualified in its entirety by reference to the press release which is attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. EXHIBITS. 99.1 Press release issued by priceline.com Incorporated on July 31, 2002 relating to strategic re-alignment of priceline.com senior management.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED By: /s/ Jeffery H. Boyd -------------------------------- Name: Jeffery H. Boyd Title: President and Co-Chief Executive Officer Date: July 31, 2002
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION 99.1 Press release issued by priceline.com Incorporated on July 31, 2002 relating to strategic re-alignment of priceline.com senior management.

Exhibit 99.1 PRICELINE.COM ANNOUNCES EXECUTIVE PROMOTIONS NORWALK, Conn., July 31, 2002 . . . The Board of Directors of priceline.com(R) (Nasdaq: PCLN) today announced the promotion of several executives and corresponding re-alignment of priceline.com's operating and management structure. Jeffery H. Boyd, former priceline.com President and Chief Operating Officer, was named President and Co-Chief Executive Officer. He shares CEO responsibilities with Chairman Richard S. Braddock. Mr. Boyd joined priceline.com in 2000 and has served as the Company's Chief Operating Officer since October 2000. Mitch Truwit, former Executive Vice President, Operations, was named as priceline.com's new Chief Operating Officer. In addition to naming Mr. Truwit, priceline.com's Board restructured the scope of the position so the COO now will oversee priceline.com's airline tickets, rental cars, mortgage and telecommunications products and operations, as well as customer service, public relations and priceline.com's international initiatives. Mr. Truwit joined priceline.com in 1999 and also served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Trey Urbahn, former President of priceline.com's airline tickets service, was named Chairman of priceline.com's Travel Services Group, a newly created position. He will focus on strategic initiatives for the Company's travel business, supplier relations and revenue and customer management. Mr. Urbahn joined priceline.com in 1998 and also served as Senior Vice President of Revenue Management. Prior to joining priceline.com, Mr. Urbahn held marketing and revenue management positions at Alamo, United Airlines, Northwest Airlines and US Airways. Christopher L. Soder, the current President, Lodging, Automotive and Business Development, also was named today as a priceline.com Executive Vice President. He leads priceline.com's hotel, vacation package and automotive services, as well as priceline.com's corporate development program. Mr. Soder joined priceline.com in 2000. "Priceline.com has attracted and developed a strong senior management team, which presents us with this unique opportunity to further strengthen our management and operating structures from within," said Mr. Braddock. "This re-alignment will enable us to more directly address ongoing challenges in the travel environment and strategically grow our business. I look forward to working closely with Jeff in our co-CEO roles to chart the future direction of the Company. Mitch is an experienced manager who has the reporting structure in place to precisely and effectively impact the business. The new Travel Chairman position will allow Trey to focus on the strategic positioning of priceline.com's travel business from customer, supplier and competitive perspectives and help develop priceline.com's product expansion plans. Chris has been instrumental in growing our hotel and vacation package businesses and we expect him to play an even more important role in our future business initiatives. By making these moves, the Board has insured that priceline.com has the right management structure and talent in place to build on priceline.com's position as one of e-commerce's premier companies." ABOUT PRICELINE.COM Priceline.com is the Name Your Own Pricesm Internet service that offers products for sale in four categories: a travel service that offers leisure airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, cruises and vacation packages; a personal finance service that offers home mortgages, refinancing and home equity loans through an independent licensee; an automotive service that offers new cars; and a telecommunications service that offers
long distance calling services. Priceline.com also licenses its business model to independent licensees, including pricelinemortgage and certain international licensees. ### For press information: Brian Ek 203-299-8167 (brian.ek@priceline.com) INFORMATION ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This press release may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "does not currently expect," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: adverse changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel products as the result of, among other things, terrorist attacks or hostilities; adverse changes in the Company's relationships with airlines and other product and service providers including, without limitation, the withdrawal of providers from the priceline.com system; the effects of increased competition; systems-related failures and/or security breaches; the Company's ability to protect its intellectual property rights; losses by the Company and its licensees; final adjustments made in closing the quarter; legal and regulatory risks and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


