FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20050207164149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
Item 1.01.
              Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
(a) .  On February 1, 2005, priceline.com Incorporated ("" or the "") made a broad based grant of restricted stock to its employees, including the Company's senior executives.  Attached are exhibits of the form grant agreements.
Restricted stock grants
priceline.com
Company
 
(b).
Employment Agreements
 
(i)
On February 7, 2005, the Company and Jeffery H. Boyd, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, executed an employment agreement, the material terms of which are summarized below.  The employment agreement replaces and supercedes all prior agreements between the Company and Mr. Boyd.
Jeffery H. Boyd.  
 
.  The agreement with Mr. Boyd has an initial term of two years, which will automatically be extended for successive one-year terms unless the Company or Mr. Boyd provide at least 90 days written notice that the term will not be so extended, and provides that during the term of the agreement Mr. Boyd will serve as a member of the Company's board of directors.  The agreement with Mr. Boyd provides for a minimum salary of $400,000 per year, and that Mr. Boyd will be eligible to participate at a level commensurate with his position in the Company's annual bonus and long-term compensation plans generally made available to the Company's senior executives, and to participate in all benefit plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally provided to comparable senior executives of the Company.
Term and Position
 
  In the event of a termination of Mr. Boyd's employment by the Company without "Cause" (as described below) or by Mr. Boyd for "Good Reason" (as described below), in either case other than during the three-year period following a "Change in Control" of the Company (as defined in the agreement with Mr. Boyd), then Mr. Boyd will be entitled to receive, in addition to his compensation accrued through the date of termination of employment, the following severance compensation and benefits:
Termination without "Cause" or for "Good Reason"(No "Change in Control").
 
(1) two times his base salary and target bonus, if any, paid over a 24-month period following his termination of employment;
 
(2) if a bonus plan is in place, a pro-rata target annual bonus for the year in which termination of employment occurs;
 
(3) continuation for two years following termination of employment of group health, life and disability insurance benefits as if Mr. Boyd were an employee of the Company;
 
(4) the portion of any outstanding Company stock options held by Mr. Boyd that would have otherwise vested with the passage of time during the one-year period following his termination of employment had he remained employed with the Company will be immediately vested, and each outstanding vested Company stock option held by Mr. Boyd will remain exercisable until the earlier of eighteen months following the date of termination of employment or the expiration of the option's original term; and
 
(5) each outstanding grant of restricted stock held by Mr. Boyd will deemed to be vested on a pro-rata basis based on the time of the applicable restricted period that has elapsed through the date of his termination of employment, but only to the extent that this would result in a greater number of shares of Company common stock vesting than would otherwise apply under the existing terms of the restricted stock grant.
 
. In the event of a termination of Mr. Boyd's employment by the Company without "Cause" (as described below) or by Mr. Boyd for "Good Reason" (as described below), in either case during the three-year period following a "Change in Control" of the Company (as defined in the agreement with Mr. Boyd)  (including any such termination of employment prior to a "Change in Control" at the request of a third party effecting the "Change in Control"), then Mr. Boyd will be entitled to receive, in addition to his compensation accrued through the date of termination of employment, the following severance compensation and benefits:
Termination without "Cause" or for "Good Reason"
("Change in Control")
(1) a lump sum cash severance payment equal to three times his base salary and target bonus;
 
(2) if a bonus plan is in place, a pro-rata target annual bonus for the year in which termination of employment occurs;
 
(3) continuation for three years following termination of employment of group health, life and disability insurance benefits as if Mr. Boyd were an employee of the Company; and
 
(4) all outstanding Company stock options and restricted stock held by Mr. Boyd will be immediately vested, and all such Company stock options will remain exercisable until the earlier of 36 months following the date of termination of employment or the expiration of the option's original term.
 
The agreement with Mr. Boyd provides that to the extent that any installment payments of severance would result in the imposition of the additional income tax pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Company and Mr. Boyd will negotiate in good faith an alternative arrangement that will provide him with payments that are equivalent in value to the value of such payments but would not be subject to such additional income tax, provided that the Company will pay Mr. Boyd the discounted present value of such payments in a lump sum on the latest date permitted pursuant to guidance from the Internal Revenue Service that would avoid the imposition of such additional income tax.  In addition, to the extent that the extension of the period during which Mr. Boyd may exercise his stock options following termination of employment would result in the imposition of the additional income tax pursuant to Section 409A, Mr. Boyd's consent to such extension is required.
 
.  The agreement with Mr. Boyd provides that the options to acquire 266,666 shares of the Company's common stock (at an exercise price of $30.66 per share) that were granted in May 25, 2001 pursuant to the Company's 1999 Omnibus Plan, will expire eighteen months after the termination of Mr. Boyd's employment as a result of his death or disability, termination by the Company without "Cause" (as defined below), termination by Mr. Boyd for "Good Reason" (as defined below) or the Company's failure to extend the term of the employment agreement (or 90 days after termination of Mr. Boyd's employment as a result of a termination by the Company for "Cause" (as defined below), termination by Mr. Boyd without "Good Reason" (as defined below) or Mr. Boyd's failure to extend the term of the employment agreement), but in no event later than May 25, 2011.
Treatment of May 2001 Options
 
  Mr. Boyd's employment agreement includes certain non-compete, non-solicitation and non-disparagement provisions.  In addition, subject to certain limitations, if severance remuneration payable under the agreement is held to constitute an "excess parachute payment" under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code and Mr. Boyd becomes liable for any excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company will make an additional cash gross-up payment to him in an amount such that Mr. Boyd will be in the same after-tax economic position as if such excise tax were not imposed.
Other.
 
(ii) .  On February 7, 2005, the Company and Chris Soder, the Company's Executive Vice President, Lodging and Vacation Products, executed an employment agreement, the material terms of which are summarized below.  The employment agreement replaces and supercedes all prior agreements between the Company and Mr. Soder.
Chris Soder
.  The agreement with Mr. Soder has an initial term of two years, which will automatically be extended for successive one-year terms unless the Company or Mr. Soder provide at least 90 days written notice that the term will not be so extended.  The agreement with Mr. Soder provides for a minimum salary of $300,000 per year, and that Mr. Soder will be eligible to participate at a level commensurate with his position in the Company's annual bonus and long-term compensation plans generally made available to the Company's senior executives, and to participate in all benefit plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally provided to comparable senior executives of the Company.
Term and Position
 
  In the event of a termination of Mr. Soder's employment by the Company without "Cause" (as described below) or by Mr. Soder for "Good Reason" (as described below), then Mr. Soder will be entitled to receive, among other things, in addition to his compensation accrued through the date of termination of employment, the following severance compensation and benefits:
Termination without "Cause" or for "Good Reason".
 
(1) two times his base salary and target bonus, if any, paid over a 12-month period following his termination of employment;
 
(2) if a bonus plan is in place, a pro-rata target annual bonus for the year in which termination of employment occurs; and
 
(3) continuation for one year following termination of employment of group health, life and disability insurance benefits as if Mr. Soder were an employee of the Company, provided that, if such termination is after a "Change in Control" (as the term is defined in the agreement with Mr. Soder) the period of benefit continuation will be twenty-four months.
 
The agreement with Mr. Soder provides that to the extent that any installment payments of severance would result in the imposition of the additional income tax pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Company and Mr. Soder will negotiate in good faith an alternative arrangement that will provide him with payments that are equivalent in value to the value of such payments but would not be subject to such additional income tax, provided that the Company may elect to pay Mr. Soder the discounted present value of such payments in a lump sum on the latest date permitted pursuant to guidance from the Internal Revenue Service that would avoid the imposition of such additional income tax.
 
  Subject to certain limitations, if severance remuneration payable under the agreement is held to constitute an "excess parachute payment" under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code and Mr. Soder becomes liable for any excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company will make an additional cash gross-up payment to him in an amount such that Mr. Soder will be in the same after-tax economic position as if such excise tax were not imposed.  In addition, the terms of the grant of certain shares of restricted common stock made to Mr. Soder on February 1, 2005, include certain non-compete, non-solicitation and non-disparagement provisions.
Other.
 
The term "", as used in the employment agreements described above, includes, among other things, (i) willful misconduct by such executive with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the willful refusal of such executive to attempt to follow the proper written direction of the Board of Directors, or, in Mr. Soder's case, a more senior officer of the Company, provided that the foregoing refusal shall not be "cause" if such executive in good faith believes that such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and promptly so notifies the Board of Directors or the more senior officer (whichever is applicable); (iii) substantial and continuing willful refusal by such executive to attempt to perform the duties required of him (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to such executive by the Board of Directors or, in Mr. Soder's case, a more senior officer of the Company, which specifically identifies the manner in which it is believed that such executive has substantially and continually refused to attempt to perform his duties; or (iv) such executive being convicted of a felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation or as a result of vicarious liability).  A notice by the Company of a non-renewal of the employment agreement will be considered an involuntary termination of such executive without "cause".  A notification of a termination for "cause" from the Company to such executive must include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board of Directors at a meeting of the Board of Directors which was called for the purpose of considering such termination and which such executive and his representative had the right to attend and address the Board of Directors, finding that, in the good faith of the Board of Directors, such executive engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of "cause" above and specifying the particulars thereof in reasonable detail.
cause
The term "", as used in the employment agreements described above, includes, among other things, (i) any material diminution of such executive's positions, duties or responsibilities (except in each case in connection with the termination of such executive's employment for "cause" or disability or as a result of such executive's death, or temporarily as a result of such executive's illness or other absence), or, the assignment to such executive of duties or responsibilities that are inconsistent with such executive's then position; (ii) removal of, or the non-reelection of, such executive from the officer position with the Company specified in the employment agreement without election to a higher position or removal of such executive from any of his then officer position; (iii) a relocation of the Company's executive office in Connecticut  to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more than thirty-five (35) miles further from such executive's residence at the time of relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus plan, program or arrangement in which such executive is entitled to participate (the "Bonus Plans"), provided that any such Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company's discretion from time to time but shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if plans providing such executive with substantially similar benefits are not substituted ("Substitute Plans"), or (B) to continue such executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus as such executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material breach by the Company of any provision of the employment agreement; or (vi) failure of any successor to the Company to assume in a writing delivered to such executive upon the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company under the employment agreement.
good reason
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.82
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of February 7, 2005 (the ""), by and between Priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the ""), and Jeffery H. Boyd ("").
Effective Date
Company
Executive
 
 
, the Company and Executive entered into an employment arrangement, dated December 30, 1999, which was amended on August 21, 2000, amended and restated on November 20, 2000 and further amended on December 20, 2001 (collectively, the "");
WHEREAS
Original Employment Agreement
 
, the Company desires that Executive continue to be employed as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Company and Executive desire to replace and supersede the Original Employment Agreement in its entirety and enter into this agreement (the "") providing for the terms of his employment by the Company.
WHEREAS
Agreement
 
, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
.  Except for earlier termination as provided in Section 8 hereof, Executive's employment under this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and end on the second anniversary of the Effective Date (the ""), provided that the Initial Employment Term shall be automatically extended for additional terms of successive one (1) year periods (each, an "") unless the Company or Executive gives written notice to the other at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Employment Term or then-current Additional Employment Term that the Executive's employment shall not be so extended.  The Initial Employment Term and each Additional Employment Term shall be referred to herein as the "."
.
1
                                      
Term of Employment
Initial Employment Term
Additional Employment Term
Employment Term
 
..  (a) Executive shall serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  Executive shall also serve, if requested by the Board of Directors of the Company (the ""), as an executive officer and director of subsidiaries and a director of Affiliates of the Company and shall comply with the policy of the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "") with regard to retention or forfeiture of director's fees.  Executive shall serve during the Employment Term as a member of the Board.  Upon termination of Executive's employment with the Company, Executive shall resign from the Board and any committees thereof (and, if applicable, from the board of directors (and any committees thereof) of any subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company) to the extent Executive is then serving thereon.
2
                                      
Positions
Board
Compensation Committee
 
Executive shall report directly to the Board and shall have such duties and authority, consistent with his then position, as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Board.
(b)
                                
 
During the Employment Term, Executive shall devote substantially all of his business time and efforts to the performance of his duties hereunder; , that Executive shall be allowed, to the extent that such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of his duties and responsibilities hereunder, to manage his personal financial and legal affairs and to serve on corporate, civic, charitable industry boards or committees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive shall only serve on corporate boards of directors if approved in advance by the Board.
(c)
                                 
provided, however
 
. During the Employment Term, the Company shall pay Executive a base salary at the annual rate of not less than $400,000.  Base salary shall be payable in accordance with the usual payroll practices of the Company.  Executive's base salary shall be subject to annual review by the Board or the
.
3
                                      
Base Salary
Compensation Committee during the Employment Term and may be increased, but not decreased, from time to time by the Board or the Compensation Committee.  The base salary as determined as aforesaid from time to time shall constitute "" for purposes of this Agreement.
Base Salary
 
.  (a)  .  Executive shall be eligible to participate in any annual bonus plan the Company may implement at any time during Executive's Employment Term for senior executives at a level commensurate with his position.
.
4
                                      
Incentive Compensation
Bonus
 
.  For each fiscal year or portion thereof during the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible to participate in any long-term incentive compensation plan generally made available to senior executives of the Company at a level commensurate with his position in accordance with and subject to the terms of such plan.
(b)
                                
Long Term Compensation
 
.  On May 25, 2001, Executive was granted by the Company, pursuant to the Company's 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended (the "") stock options to purchase 266,666 (after giving effect to the Company's June 2003 one-for-six reverse stock split) shares of the Company's issued and outstanding common stock (the ""), at an exercise price per share of $30.66 (the "").  As of the date hereof, the May 2001 Stock Options are fully vested and exercisable.  The May 2001 Stock Options shall expire on the earlier of (i) May, 25, 2011 or (ii)(A) eighteen (18) months after any termination of employment if such termination is as of the result of Executive's death, Termination for Disability, Termination without Cause, Termination for Good Reason or non-extension of the Employment Term in accordance with Section 1 hereof as a result of notice from the Company, and (B) ninety (90) days after such termination if such termination is a result of Executive's Termination for Cause, voluntary Termination by Executive without Good Reason, or non-extension of the Employment Term in accordance with Section 1 hereof as a result of notice by Executive.
(c)
                                 
May 25, 2001 Stock Option Grant
1999 Plan
Common Stock
May 2001 Stock Options
 
.  The Company may, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, award to the Executive such other bonuses and compensation as it deems appropriate and reasonable.
(d)
                                
Other Compensation
 
[Intentionally Deleted.]
.
5
                                      
 
.  (a)  During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all benefit plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally provided to comparable senior executives of the Company.
.
6
                                      
Employee Benefits and Vacation
 
During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to vacation each year in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time, but in no event less than four (4) weeks paid vacation per calendar year.  The Executive shall also be entitled to such periods of sick leave as is customarily provided by the Company for its senior executive employees.
(b)
                                
 
.  The Company shall reimburse Executive for the travel, entertainment and other business expenses incurred by Executive in the performance of his duties hereunder, in accordance with the Company's policies as in effect from time to time.
.
7
                                      
Business Expenses
 
.  (a)  The employment of Executive under this Agreement shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of any of the following events:
8.
                                      
Termination
 
the death of the Executive;
(i)
                 
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company due to the Executive's Disability pursuant to Section 8(b) hereof;
(ii)
              
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Executive for Good Reason pursuant to Section 8(c) hereof;
(iii)
           
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company without Cause;
(iv)
          
 
the termination of employment by the Executive without Good Reason upon sixty (60) days prior written notice; or
(v)
             
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company for Cause pursuant to Section 8(e).
(vi)
          
 
.  If by reason of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity, the Executive is unable to carry out his material duties pursuant to this Agreement for more than six (6) consecutive months, the Company may terminate Executive's employment for Disability.  Such termination shall be upon thirty (30) days written notice by a Notice of Disability Termination, at any time thereafter while Executive consecutively continues to be unable to carry out his duties as a result of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity.  A Termination for Disability hereunder shall not be effective if Executive returns to the full time performance of his material duties within such thirty (30) day period.
(b)
                                
Disability
 
.  A Termination for Good Reason means a termination by Executive by written notice given within ninety (90) days after the occurrence of the Good Reason event, unless such circumstances are fully corrected prior to the date of termination specified in the Notice of Termination for Good Reason (as defined in Section 8(d) hereof).  For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the occurrence or failure to cause the occurrence, as the case may be, without Executive's express written consent, of any of the following circumstances:  (i) any material diminution of Executive's positions, duties or responsibilities hereunder (except in each case in connection with the termination of Executive's employment for Cause or Disability or as a result of Executive's death, or temporarily as a result of Executive's illness or other absence), or, the assignment to Executive of duties or responsibilities that are inconsistent with Executive's then position; (ii) removal of, or the non-reelection of, the Executive from officer positions with the Company specified herein without election to a higher position or removal of the Executive from any of his then officer positions; (iii) a relocation of the Company's executive office in Connecticut  to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more than thirty-five (35) miles further from the Executive's residence at the time of relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus plan, program or arrangement in which Executive is entitled to participate (the ""), provided that any such Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company's discretion from time to time but shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if plans providing Executive with substantially similar benefits are not substituted therefor (""), or (B) to continue Executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus as Executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement, including without limitation Section 13 hereof; or (vi) failure of any successor to the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by merger, acquisition, consolidation or otherwise) to assume in a writing delivered to Executive upon the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company hereunder.
(c)
                                 
Termination for Good Reason
Good Reason
Bonus Plans
Substitute Plans
 
.  A Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 8(c) relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for Termination for Good Reason.  The failure by Executive to set forth in the Notice of Termination for Good Reason any facts or circumstances which contribute to the showing of Good Reason shall not waive any right of Executive hereunder or preclude Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing his rights hereunder.  The Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall provide for a date of termination not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days after the date such Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given, provided that in
(d)
                                
Notice of Termination for Good Reason
the case of the events set forth in Sections 8(c)(i) or (ii) or the date may be five (5) days after the giving of such notice.
 
.  Subject to the notification provisions of Section 8(f) below, Executive's employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company for Cause.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Cause" shall be limited to (i) willful misconduct by Executive with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the willful refusal of Executive to attempt to follow the proper written direction of the Board, provided that the foregoing refusal shall not be "Cause" if Executive in good faith believes that such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and promptly so notifies the Board; (iii) substantial and continuing willful refusal by the Executive to attempt to perform the duties required of him hereunder (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board which specifically identifies the manner in which it is believed that the Executive has substantially and continually refused to attempt to perform his duties hereunder; or (iv) the Executive being convicted of a felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation or as a result of vicarious liability).  For purposes of this paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on Executive's part shall be considered "willful" unless done or omitted to be done, by him not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.  A notice by the Company of a non-renewal of the Employment Term pursuant to Section 1 hereof shall be deemed an involuntary termination of Executive by the Company without Cause as of the end of the then Employment Term, but Executive may terminate at any time after the receipt of such notice and shall be treated as if he was terminated without Cause as of such date.
(e)
                                 
Cause
 
.  A Notice of Termination for Cause shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 8(e) relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances which provide for a basis for Termination for Cause.  Further, a Notification for Cause shall be required to include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board which was called for the purpose of considering such termination and which Executive and his representative had the right to attend and address the Board, finding that, in the good faith of the Board, Executive engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of Cause herein and specifying the particulars thereof in reasonable detail.  The date of termination for a Termination for Cause shall be the date indicated in the Notice of Termination.  Any purported Termination for Cause which is held by a court not to have been based on the grounds set forth in this Agreement or not to have followed the procedures set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed a Termination by the Company without Cause.
(f)
                                   
Notice of Termination for Cause
 
.
9.
                                      
Consequences of Termination of Employment
 
.  If, Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death, the employment period under this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement except for:  (i) any compensation earned but not yet paid, including and without limitation, any bonus if declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year, any amount of Base Salary earned but unpaid, any accrued vacation pay payable pursuant to the Company's policies, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to Section 7 (collectively ""), which amounts shall be promptly paid in a lump sum to Executive's estate; (ii) any other amounts or benefits owing to the Executive under the then applicable employee benefit plans, long term incentive plans or equity plans and programs of the Company which shall be paid or treated in accordance with Section 4(c) hereof with regard to the May 2001 Stock Options and otherwise in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (iii) continuation, for twelve (12) months following the date of death, of Executive's health benefits for Executive's dependents at the same level and cost as if Executive was an employee of the Company; and (iv) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive's death, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive
(a)
                                 
Death
Accrued Amounts
was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid when bonuses for such period are paid to the other executives.
 
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability, Executive shall be entitled to receive the payments and benefits to which his representatives would be entitled in the event of a termination of employment by reason of his death plus Executive shall be entitled to continuation, for twelve (12) months following such termination of employment, of group life and disability insurance benefits as if Executive was an active employee of the Company.
(b)
                                
Disability
 
.  If Executive terminates his employment hereunder for Good Reason during the Employment Term or Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause, then:
(c)
                                 
Termination by Executive for Good Reason or Termination by the Company without Cause
 
(i) if such termination occurs on a date that does not fall within the Protection Period (as defined below), Executive shall be entitled to receive, (A) over a period of twenty-four (24) months after such termination (except as provided below), an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of his Base Salary and target bonus, if any, for the year in which such termination occurs (provided, however, in the event that the Base Salary or target bonus, if any, has been decreased in the twelve (12) months prior to the termination, the amount to be used shall be the highest Base Salary and target bonus, if any, during such twelve (12) month period); (B) any Accrued Amounts at the date of termination; (C) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive under the then applicable employee benefit, long term incentive or equity plans and programs of the Company, which shall be paid or treated in accordance with Section 4(c) hereof with regard to the May 2001 Stock Options and otherwise in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs, except that (1) the portion of each outstanding option to acquire shares of Common Stock held by Executive that would have otherwise vested with the passage of time during the one-year period immediately following the Executive's termination of employment had the Executive remained employed with the Company during such one-year period shall be treated as immediately vested as of the date of such termination, (2) each outstanding vested option to acquire shares of Common Stock held by Executive as of the date of such termination (taking into account the additional vesting described in the preceding clause (1)) shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (x) the expiration of such option's original term or (y) 18 months following the date of termination and (3) with respect to each outstanding grant of shares of restricted Common Stock held by Executive, such grant shall be deemed to be vested with respect to a number of shares determined as the product of (I) the total number of shares subject to such grant and (II) the quotient obtained by dividing (aa) the number of days in the relevant restricted period that the Executive was employed with the Company (assuming for such purpose that the Executive remained employed with the Company for the one-year period immediately following the Executive's termination of employment) by (bb) the number of days in the relevant restricted period, but only to the extent that the application of this clause (3) would result in more shares being vested than would otherwise be vested under the terms of such plans and programs and applicable award agreements; (D) continuation, for two years following such termination of employment, of group health, life and disability insurance benefits as if Executive was an employee of the Company; and (E) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive's termination, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid when bonuses for such period are paid to the other executives; and
 
(ii) if such termination occurs during the period (the "") commencing on the date of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 11(a)) and ending on the third anniversary of such Change in Control, Executive shall be entitled to receive, (A) a lump sum cash payment in an amount equal to three (3) times the sum of his Base Salary and target bonus, if any, for the year in which such termination occurs (provided, however, in the event that the Base Salary or target bonus, if any, has been decreased in the twelve (12) months prior to the termination, the amount to be used shall be the highest Base Salary and target bonus, if
Protection Period
 
any, during such twelve (12) month period); (B) any Accrued Amounts at the date of termination; (C) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive under the then applicable employee benefit, long term incentive or equity plans and programs of the Company, which shall be paid or treated in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs, except that (1) each outstanding option to acquire shares of Common Stock held by Executive as of the date of such termination shall become immediately fully vested and remain exercisable until the earlier of (x) the expiration of such option's original term or (y) 36 months following the date of termination and (2) each outstanding share of restricted Common Stock held by Executive shall be immediately fully vested as of the date of such termination; (D) continuation, for three years following such termination of employment, of group health, life and disability insurance benefits as if Executive was an employee of the Company; and (E) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive's termination, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid when bonuses for such period are paid to the other executives.
 
To the extent that any portion of the amount payable pursuant to clause (i)(A) of this Section 9(c) would be subject to the additional 20% tax imposed under Section 409A of the Code (the ""), the parties shall negotiate in good faith an alternative arrangement that will provide Executive with payments that are equivalent in value to the value of the 409A Affected Amount but would not be subject to such additional 20% tax; , , that to the extent the "short-term deferral" exception as promulgated in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 is still applicable, the Company shall pay the portion of the 409A Affected Amount otherwise due after the latest date it could be paid and still maintain the benefit of such "short-term deferral" exception in the form of a lump sum cash payment, on the latest possible date permitted pursuant to such "short-term deferral" exception that would avoid such additional 20% tax, in an amount equal to the present value of the 409A Affected Amount on such payment date, with such present value determined based on an interest rate equal to the Company's then applicable cost of short-term borrowing.  In addition, to the extent that any extension, pursuant to clause (i)(C)(2) or clause (ii)(C)(1) of this Section 9(c), of the period of exercisability of any outstanding option to acquire shares of Common Stock would result in the imposition on Executive of the additional 20% tax under Section 409A of the Code, such extension shall not apply without the consent of the Executive.
409A Affected Amount
provided
however
 
.  If, Executive's employment hereunder is terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or (ii) by Executive without Good Reason, the Executive shall be entitled to receive only his Base Salary through the date of termination, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to Section 7 and, if such termination is by Executive without Good Reason, any bonus that has been declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year.  Executive's rights under all benefits plans and equity grants shall be determined in accordance with the Company's plans, programs and grants, except as provided in Section 4(c) hereof with respect to the May 2001 Stock Options.
(d)
                                
Termination with Cause or Voluntary Resignation without Good Reason
 
  For purposes of this Agreement, a bonus in respect of services performed in a fiscal year shall not be considered to be earned until after the Committee and/or the Board, as applicable, has reviewed the Company's performance and Executive's performance in respect of such year  and has determined the amount of the bonus, if any, to be payable to Executive in respect of such year's performance; , , that if the Executive is still employed by the Company as of December 31 of any year, the Executive shall be considered to have earned the bonus in respect of services performed in such year (to the extent that the Committee and/or the Board determine that such bonus would otherwise have been payable to the Executive had the Executive remained employed through the relevant payment date for such bonus) unless the Executive's employment is subsequently terminated by the Company for Cause or by the Executive without Good Reason.
(e)
                                 
Determination of Earned Bonus.
provided
however
 
.  In the event of any termination of employment hereunder, Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment and there shall be no offset against any amounts due Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that Executive may obtain.  The amounts payable hereunder shall not be subject to setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or others, except upon obtaining by the Company of a final unappealable judgment against Executive.
10.
                                
No Mitigation; No Set-Off
 
.  (a)  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
11.
                                
Change in Control
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the ""); , , that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
 (i)
                                 
Company Voting Securities
provided
however
 
individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; , , that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
(ii)
                                 
Incumbent Directors
provided
however
provided
further
 
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a ""), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the ""), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the ""), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization
(iii)
                              
Reorganization
Sale
Surviving Entity
Parent Entity
 
or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a ""); or
Non-Qualifying Transaction
 
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)
                             
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; , , that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
provided
however
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(b)
                                
 
(i) "" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "");
Affiliate
Exchange Act
 
(ii) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
Beneficial Owner
 
(iii) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of Common Stock or (5) the Executive or any group of persons including Executive (or any entity controlled by Executive or any group of persons including Executive).
Person
 
For purposes of this Agreement, if (i) Executive's employment is terminated prior to a Change in Control by the Company without Cause or by Executive for Good Reason, (ii) Executive reasonably demonstrates that such termination of employment (or the event giving rise to Executive's termination of employment for Good Reason) occurred at the request of a third party who had indicated an intention or taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control and (z) a Change in Control involving such third party (or a party competing with such third party to effectuate a Change in Control) does occur, then the date immediately preceding the date of such termination of employment (or such event giving rise to Good Reason) shall be treated as the date of the Change in Control, except that for purposes of determining the timing of payments and benefits to Executive, the date of the actual Change in Control shall be treated as the Executive's date of termination of employment.
(c)
                              
 
.  (a)  Executive acknowledges that as a result of his employment by the Company, Executive will obtain Confidential Information as to the Company and its Affiliates and the Company and its Affiliates will suffer substantial damage, which would be difficult to ascertain, if Executive should use such Confidential Information and that because of the nature of the information that will be known to Executive it is necessary for the Company and its Affiliates to be protected by the confidentiality restrictions set forth herein.  For purposes of this Agreement, "" means information, observations and data concerning the business or affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates, including, without limitation, all business information (whether or not in written form) which relates to the Company, its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or their customers, suppliers or contractors or any other third parties in respect of which the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates has a business relationship or owes a duty of confidentiality, or their respective businesses or products, and which is not known to the public generally other than as a result of the Executive's breach of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  technical information or reports; trade secrets; unwritten knowledge and "know-how"; operating instructions; training manuals; customer lists; customer buying records and habits; product sales records and documents, and product development, marketing and sales strategies; market surveys; marketing plans; profitability analyses; product cost; long-range plans; information relating to pricing, competitive strategies and new product development; information relating to any forms of compensation or other personnel-related information; contracts; and supplier lists.  Confidential Information will not include (i) such information known to the Executive prior to the Executive's involvement with the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates or information obtained from a third party (other than pursuant to a breach by the Executive of this Agreement) or (ii) contact information contained in the Executive's personal rolodex or electronic address book.
12.
                                
Confidential Information
Confidential Information
 
During and for a period of five (5) years after the Employment Term, Executive shall not use for his own benefit or disclose Confidential Information obtained by Executive during his employment by the Company and its Affiliates and not (i) otherwise public knowledge or known within the applicable industry or (ii) in connection with performance of his duties hereunder as he deems in good faith to be necessary or desirable.  Executive shall not, without prior written consent of the Company, unless compelled pursuant to the order of a court or other governmental or legal body having jurisdiction over such matter, communicate or divulge any such Confidential Information to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it.  In the event Executive is compelled by order of a court or other governmental or legal body to communicate or divulge any such Confidential Information to anyone other than the foregoing, he shall promptly notify the Company of any such order so it may seek a protective order.
(b)
                                
 
Upon termination of his employment with the Company and its Affiliates, or at any time as the Company may request, Executive will promptly deliver to the Company, as requested, all documents (whether prepared by the Company, an Affiliate, Executive or a third party) relating to the Company, an Affiliate or any of their businesses or property which he may possess or have under his direction or control other than documents provided to Executive in his capacity as a participant in any employee benefit plan, policy or program of the Company or any agreement by and between Executive and the Company with regard to Executive's employment or severance.
(c)
                                 
 
(i)  In the event of a breach or potential breach of this Section 12 and/or Section 15 by Executive, Executive acknowledges that the Company and its Affiliates will or could be caused irreparable injury and that money damages may not be an adequate remedy and agree that the Company and its Affiliates shall be entitled to injunctive relief (in addition to its other remedies at law) to have the provisions of this Section 12 and/or Section 15 enforced.  It is hereby acknowledged that the provisions of this Section 12 and Section 15 are for the benefit of the Company and all of the Affiliates of the Company and each such entity may enforce the provisions of this Section 12 and/or Section 15 and only the applicable entity can waive the rights hereunder with respect to its Confidential Information and employees.
(d)
                                
 
In the event of a breach or potential breach of Section 15(c)(ii) by the Company, the Company acknowledges that the Executive will or could be caused irreparable injury and that money damages may not be an adequate remedy and agree that the Executive shall be entitled to injunctive relief (in addition to its other remedies at law) to have the provisions of Section 15(c)(ii) enforced.
(ii)
                                 
 
. The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Executive to the fullest extent permitted by law for any action or inaction of Executive while serving as an officer and director of the Company or, at the Company's request, as an officer or director of any other entity or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan.  The Company shall cover the Executive under directors and officers liability insurance both during and, while potential liability exists, after the Employment Term in the same amount and to the same extent as the Company covers its other officers and directors.
13.
                                
Indemnification
 
.
14.
                                
Legal Fees
 
The Company shall pay the Executive's reasonable legal fees and costs associated with entering into this Agreement.
(a)
                                 
 
All disputes and controversies arising under or in connection with this Agreement, other than the seeking of injunctive or other equitable relief pursuant to Section 12 hereof, shall be settled by arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in New York City, New York, or such other location agreed by the parties hereto, in accordance with the rules for expedited resolution of commercial disputes of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The determination of the majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding on the parties.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction.  All expenses of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the counsel of the Executive, shall be borne by the Company unless the arbitrators determine that Executive's position was overall frivolous or otherwise taken in bad faith, in which case the arbitrators may determine that Executive shall bear his own legal fees.
(b)
                                
 
In the event after a Change in Control either party files for arbitration to resolve any dispute as to whether a termination is for Cause or Good Reason, until such dispute is determined by the arbitrators, the Executive shall continue to be treated economically and benefit wise in the manner asserted by him in the arbitration effective as of the date of the filing of the arbitration, subject to the Executive promptly refunding any amounts paid to him, paying the cost of any benefits provided to him and paying to the Company the profits in any stock option or other equity awards exercised or otherwise realized by him during the pendency of the arbitration which he is ultimately held not to be entitled to; provided the arbitrators may terminate such payments and benefits in the event that they determine at any point that the Executive is intentionally delaying conclusion of the arbitration.
(c)
                                 
 
.
15.
                                
Non-Competition/Non-Solicitation/Non-Disparagement
 
(a)     Executive acknowledges that the Company has expended and shall continue to expend substantial amounts of time, money and effort to develop business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill and build an effective organization.  The Executive acknowledges that the Executive is and shall become familiar with the Company's Confidential Information (as defined below), including trade secrets, and that the Executive's services are of special, unique and extraordinary value to the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates.  The Executive acknowledges that the Company has a legitimate business interest and right in protecting its Confidential Information, business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill, and that the Company would be seriously damaged by the disclosure of Confidential Information and the loss or deterioration of its business strategies, employee and customer
Acknowledgments.
relationships and goodwill.  Executive acknowledges (i) that the business of the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates will be global in scope and without geographical limitation and (ii) notwithstanding the jurisdiction of formation or principal office of the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates, or any of their respective executives or employees (including, without limitation, the Executive), it is expected that the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates will have business activities and have valuable business relationships within its industry throughout the world.  In addition, the Executive agrees and acknowledges that the potential harm to the Company of the non-enforcement of Section 15(b) and (c) (including (c)(ii) as it relates to a breach by the Executive of such provision) outweighs any potential harm to Executive of its enforcement by injunction or otherwise.  The Executive acknowledges that he has carefully read this Agreement and has given careful consideration to the restraints imposed upon Executive by this Agreement, and is in full accord as to their necessity for the reasonable and proper protection of the Confidential Information, business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates now existing or to be developed in the future.  Executive expressly acknowledges and agrees that each and every restraint imposed by this Agreement is reasonable with respect to subject matter, time period and geographical area.  The Executive further acknowledges that although the Executive's compliance with the covenants contained in Section 15(b) and (c)(i) may prevent the Executive from earning a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, the Executive's experience and capabilities are such that the Executive has other opportunities to earn a livelihood and adequate means of support for the Executive and the Executive's dependents.
 
(b)  .  (i) 
Noncompetition
The Executive
agrees that the Executive shall not, while an employee of the Company, and for the one-year period following termination of Executive's employment with the Company for any reason, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Company, (A) engage in any activities, in any capacity, for or on behalf of any of the following companies or their successors (the ""):  (1) any travel businesses of InterActive Corporation, provided that the restriction in this clause (1) shall cease to apply upon the completion of the spin-off of Expedia from InterActive Corporation; (2) Expedia, Hotels.com & Hotwire; (3) Sabre Group; (4) Lastminute.com plc; (5) the following companies or divisions owned or controlled by Cendant's Travel Distribution Services (a subsidiary of Cendant Corporation):  Orbitz, CheapTickets, Lodging.com, the Neat Group and Galileo; (6) the following on-line travel aggregators: SideStep, Inc. (owner and operator of the website SideStep.com), Mobissimo, Inc. (owner and operator of the website Mobissimo.com), Cheapflights Limited (owner and operator of the website Cheapflights.com), Farechase, Kayak.com, or any substantially similar on-line travel search business; and (7) on-line travel search businesses of Yahoo!, MSN, AOL or Google; (B) solicit or attempt to solicit any customer or client or actively sought prospective customer or client of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates, with respect to the businesses actively operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates (it being intended that businesses owned but not operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates, such as, as of the Effective Date, the Company's mortgage business, are not to be covered by this clause (B)), to purchase any goods or services of the type sold by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates from anyone other than the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; or (C) assist any person or entity in any way to do, or attempt to do, anything prohibited by (A) or (B) above; or
Competitive Activities
 
(ii)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the restrictions in Section 15(b)(i) will not be deemed breached as a result of (A) the Executive's passive ownership of less than an aggregate of 5% of any class of securities of a person or entity engaged, directly or indirectly, in Competitive Activities; , , that such stock is listed on a national securities exchange or is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ or (B) the Executive's engaging in activities for a person or entity that directly or indirectly has an ownership interest in any of the companies or businesses listed or described in Section 15(b)(i)(A)(1) through (7) provided that the services performed by Executive in the course of such activities are not in any way connected with the activities of such companies or businesses.
provided
however
 
(iii)  If a final and non-appealable judicial determination is made that any of the provisions of this Section 15 constitutes an unreasonable or otherwise unenforceable restriction against the Executive, the provisions of this Section 15 will not be rendered void but will be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to remain in force and effect for the longest period and largest geographic area that would not constitute such an unreasonable or unenforceable restriction.  Moreover, notwithstanding the fact that any provision of this Section 15 is determined not to be specifically enforceable, the Company will nevertheless be entitled to seek to recover monetary damages as a result of the Executive's breach of such provision.
 
While an employee of the Company, and for the one-year period following termination of Executive's employment with the Company for any reason,  (i) Executive shall not (whether for Executive's own account or on behalf of any person, corporation, partnership, or other business entity, and whether directly or indirectly) (A) solicit, recruit or hire any employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates or any persons who within one year of such solicitation, recruitment or hiring have worked for the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; (B) solicit or encourage any employee of Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates to leave the services of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; and (C) intentionally interfere with the relationship of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates with any person who or which is employed by or otherwise engaged to perform services for the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; , , that neither (1) the general advertisement for employees or the general solicitation of employees by a recruiter or (2) Executive's being named as an employment reference for a current or former employee of the Company and responding to ordinary course inquiries made of Executive by prospective employers of such employee in connection with such reference, shall be deemed a violation of this clause (i) and (ii) neither Executive nor the Company shall publicly or with the intent to become public make any statements, written or oral, which disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of, in Executive's case, the Company formally or, its directors or senior officers or, in the Company's case, Executive.
(c)  . 
Non-Solicitation/Non-Disparagement
provided
however
 
.
16.
                                
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
 
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any payment, award, benefit or distribution (or any acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or distribution) by the Company (or any of its Affiliates) or any entity which effectuates a Change in Control (or any of its Affiliates) to or for the benefit of Executive (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 16) (the "") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), or any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the ""), then the Company shall pay to Executive an additional payment (a "") in an amount such that after payment by Executive of all taxes (including any Excise Tax) imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the sum of (x) the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments and (y) the product of any deductions disallowed because of the inclusion of the Gross-up Payment in Executive's adjusted gross income and the highest applicable marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made.  For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-up Payment, the Executive shall be deemed to (i) pay federal income taxes at the highest marginal rates of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made, and (ii) pay applicable state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 16(a), if it shall be determined that Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the Payments would not be subject to the Excise Tax if the Payments were reduced by an
(a)
                                 
Payments
Code
Excise Tax
Gross-Up Payment
amount that is less than 5% of the portion of the Payments that would be treated as "parachute payments" under Section 280G of the Code, then the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the maximum amount that could be paid to Executive without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the ""), and no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive.  The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing first the payments under Section 16, unless an alternative method of reduction is elected by Executive.  For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under this Agreement (and no other Payments) shall be reduced.  If the reduction of the amounts payable hereunder would not result in a reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, no amounts payable under this Agreement shall be reduced pursuant to this provision.
Safe Harbor Cap
 
(b)
                                
Subject to the provisions of Section 16(a), all determinations required to be made under this Section 16, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, the reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determinations, shall be made by the public accounting firm that is retained by the Company as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control (the "") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and Executive within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Company or the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company (collectively, the "").  In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change in Control, Executive may appoint another nationally recognized public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).  All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company and the Company shall enter into any agreement requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance of the services hereunder.  The Gross-up Payment under this Section 16 with respect to any Payments shall be made no later than thirty (30) days following such Payment.  If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive, it shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on Executive's applicable federal income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar penalty.  In the event the Accounting Firm determines that the Payments shall be reduced to the Safe Harbor Cap, it shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect.  The Determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and Executive.  As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the Determination, it is possible that Gross-up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("") or Gross-up Payments are made by the Company which should not have been made (""), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder.  In the event that the Executive thereafter is required to make payment of any Excise Tax or additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive.  In the event the amount of the Gross-up Payment exceeds the amount necessary to reimburse the Executive for his Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Overpayment that has been made and any such Overpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2) of the Code) shall be promptly paid by Executive (to the extent he has received a refund if the applicable Excise Tax has been paid to the Internal Revenue Service) to or for the benefit of the Company; , , that such repayment obligation shall not apply to the extent it would be treated as a prohibited personal loan from the Company to the Executive for purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Executive shall cooperate, to the extent his expenses are reimbursed by the Company, with any reasonable requests by the Company in connection with any contests or disputes with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the Excise Tax.
Accounting Firm
Determination
Underpayment
Overpayment
provided
however
 
.
17.
                                
Miscellaneous
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(a)
                                 
Governing Law
 
.  This Agreement and the instruments contemplated herein, contain the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the employment of Executive by the Company from and after the Commencement Date and supersedes any prior agreements between the Company and Executive.  There are no restrictions, agreements, promises, warranties, covenants or undertakings between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein other than those expressly set forth herein and therein.  This Agreement may not be altered, modified, or amended except by written instrument signed by the parties hereto.
(b)
                                
Entire Agreement/Amendments
 
.  The failure of a party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion shall not be considered a waiver of such party's rights or deprive such party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement.  Any such waiver must be in writing and signed by Executive or an authorized officer of the Company, as the case may be.
(c)
                                 
No Waiver
 
.  This Agreement shall not be assignable by Executive.  This Agreement shall be assignable by the Company only to an acquirer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, provided such acquirer promptly assumes all of the obligations hereunder of the Company in a writing delivered to the Executive and otherwise complies with the provisions hereof with regard to such assumption.
 (d)
                             
Assignment
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees legatees and permitted assignees of the parties hereto.
(e)
                                 
Successors; Binding Agreement; Third Party Beneficiaries
 
.  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) when faxed or delivered, or (ii) two (2) business days after being mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the initial page of this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  Notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
(f)
                                   
Communications
 
.  The Company may withhold from any and all amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state and local taxes as may be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
(g)
                                
Withholding Taxes
 
.  The respective rights and obligations of the parties hereunder, including without limitation Section 12 and Section 15 hereof, shall survive any termination of Executive's employment to the extent necessary to the agreed preservation of such rights and obligations.
(h)
                                
Survivorship
 
.  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (including via facsimile), each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
(i)
                                    
Counterparts
.  The headings of the sections contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.
(j)
                                    
Headings
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.83
 
 
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 
 
 
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of February 7, 2005 (the ""), by and between Priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the ""), and Chris Soder ("").
Effective Date
Company
Executive
 
 
, the Company and Executive entered into an employment arrangement dated May 1, 2002, March 13, 2001 and January 4, 2000 (collectively, the "")
WHEREAS
Original Employment Arrangements
 
, the Company desires that Executive continue to be employed as the Executive Vice President, Lodging and Vacation Packages of the Company;
WHEREAS
 
, the Company and Executive desire to replace and supercede the Original Employment Arrangements in their entirety and enter into this agreement (the "") providing for the terms of his employment by the Company;
WHEREAS
Agreement
 
, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
.  Except for earlier termination as provided in Section 8 hereof, Executive's employment under this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and end on the second anniversary of the Effective Date (the ""), provided that the Initial Employment Term shall be automatically extended for additional terms of successive one (1) year periods (each, an "") unless the Company or Executive gives written notice to the other at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Employment Term or then-current Additional Employment Term that the Executive's employment shall not be so extended.  The Initial Employment Term and each Additional Employment Term shall be referred to herein as the "."
.
1
                                      
Term of Employment
Initial Employment Term
Additional Employment Term
Employment Term
 
.  (a) Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President, Lodging and Vacation Packages of the Company.   Executive shall also serve, if requested by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as an executive officer and director of subsidiaries and a director of Affiliates of the Company and shall comply with the policy of the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "") with regard to retention or forfeiture of director's fees.
.
2
                                      
Positions
Compensation Committee
 
Executive shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall have such duties and authority, consistent with his then position, as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors (the "") or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
(b)
                                
Board
 
During the Employment Term, Executive shall devote substantially all of his business time and efforts to the performance of his duties hereunder; , that Executive shall be allowed, to the extent that such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of his duties and responsibilities hereunder, to manage his personal financial and legal affairs and to serve on corporate, civic, charitable industry boards or committees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive shall only serve on corporate boards of directors if approved in advance by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
(c)
                                 
provided, however
 
.  During the Employment Term, the Company shall pay Executive a base salary at the annual rate of not less than $300,000.  Base salary shall be payable in accordance with the usual payroll practices of the Company.  Executive's base salary shall be subject to annual review by the Board or the Compensation Committee during the Employment Term and may be increased, but not decreased, from time to
.
3
                                      
Base Salary
time by the Board or the Compensation Committee.  The base salary as determined as aforesaid from time to time shall constitute "" for purposes of this Agreement.
Base Salary
 
.  (a)  .  Executive shall be eligible to participate in any annual bonus plan the Company may implement at any time during Executive's Employment Term for senior executives at a level commensurate with his position.
.
4
                                      
Incentive Compensation
Bonus
 
.  For each fiscal year or portion thereof during the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible to participate in any long-term incentive compensation plan generally made available to senior executives of the Company at a level commensurate with his position in accordance with and subject to the terms of such plan.
(b)
                                
Long Term Compensation
 
.  The Company may, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, award to the Executive such other bonuses and compensation as it deems appropriate and reasonable.
(c)
                                 
Other Compensation
 
.  (a)  During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all benefit plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally provided to comparable senior executives of the Company.
5.
                                      
Employee Benefits and Vacation
 
During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to vacation each year in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time, but in no event less than four (4) weeks paid vacation per calendar year.  The Executive shall also be entitled to such periods of sick leave as is customarily provided by the Company for its senior executive employees.
(b)
                                
 
.  The Company shall reimburse Executive for the travel, entertainment and other business expenses incurred by Executive in the performance of his duties hereunder, in accordance with the Company's policies as in effect from time to time.
6.
                                      
Business Expenses
 
.  (a)  The employment of Executive under this Agreement shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of any of the following events:
7.
                                      
Termination
 
the death of the Executive;
(i)
                      
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company due to the Executive's Disability pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof;
(ii)
                   
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Executive for Good Reason pursuant to Section 7(c) hereof;
(iii)
                
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company without Cause;
(iv)
               
 
the termination of employment by the Executive without Good Reason upon sixty (60) days prior written notice; or
(v)
                  
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company for Cause pursuant to Section 7(e).
(vi)
               
 
.  If by reason of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity, the Executive is unable to carry out his material duties pursuant to this Agreement for more than six (6) consecutive months, the Company may terminate Executive's employment for Disability.  Such termination shall be upon thirty (30) days written notice by a Notice of Disability Termination, at any time thereafter while Executive consecutively continues to be unable to carry out his duties as a result of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity.  A Termination for Disability hereunder shall not be effective if Executive returns to the full time performance of his material duties within such thirty (30) day period.
(b)
                                
Disability
.  A Termination for Good Reason means a termination by Executive by written notice given within ninety (90) days after the occurrence of the Good Reason event, unless such circumstances are fully corrected prior to the date of termination specified in the Notice of Termination for Good Reason (as defined in Section 7(d) hereof).  For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the occurrence or failure to cause the occurrence, as the case may be, without Executive's express written consent, of any of the following circumstances:  (i) any material diminution of Executive's positions, duties or responsibilities hereunder (except in each case in connection with the termination of Executive's employment for Cause or Disability or as a result of Executive's death, or temporarily as a result of Executive's illness or other absence), or, the assignment to Executive of duties or responsibilities that are inconsistent with Executive's then position; (ii) removal of, or the non-reelection of, the Executive from officer positions with the Company specified herein without election to a higher position or removal of the Executive from any of his then officer positions; (iii) a relocation of the Company's executive office in Connecticut  to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more than thirty-five (35) miles further from the Executive's residence at the time of relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus plan, program or arrangement in which Executive is entitled to participate (the ""), provided that any such Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company's discretion from time to time but shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if plans providing Executive with substantially similar benefits are not substituted therefor (""), or (B) to continue Executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus as Executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement, including without limitation Section 12 hereof; or (vi) failure of any successor to the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by merger, acquisition, consolidation or otherwise) to assume in a writing delivered to Executive upon the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company hereunder.
(c)
                                 
Termination for Good Reason
Good Reason
Bonus Plans
Substitute Plans
 
.  A Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 7(c) relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for Termination for Good Reason.  The failure by Executive to set forth in the Notice of Termination for Good Reason any facts or circumstances which contribute to the showing of Good Reason shall not waive any right of Executive hereunder or preclude Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing his rights hereunder.  The Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall provide for a date of termination not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days after the date such Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given, provided that in the case of the events set forth in Sections 7(c)(i) or (ii) or the date may be five (5) days after the giving of such notice.
(d)
                                
Notice of Termination for Good Reason
 
.  Subject to the notification provisions of Section 7(f) below, Executive's employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company for Cause.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Cause" shall be limited to (i) willful misconduct by Executive with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the willful refusal of Executive to attempt to follow the proper written direction of the Board or a more senior officer of the Company, provided that the foregoing refusal shall not be "Cause" if Executive in good faith believes that such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and promptly so notifies the Board or the more senior officer (whichever is applicable); (iii) substantial and continuing willful refusal by the Executive to attempt to perform the duties required of him hereunder (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board or a more senior officer of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which it is believed that the Executive has substantially and continually refused to attempt to perform his duties hereunder; or (iv) the Executive being convicted of a felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation or as a result of vicarious liability).  For purposes of this
(e)
                                 
Cause
paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on Executive's part shall be considered "willful" unless done or omitted to be done, by him not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.  A notice by the Company of a non-renewal of the Employment Term pursuant to Section 1 hereof shall be deemed an involuntary termination of Executive by the Company without Cause as of the end of the then Employment Term, but Executive may terminate at any time after the receipt of such notice and shall be treated as if he was terminated without Cause as of such date.
 
.  A Notice of Termination for Cause shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 7(e) relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances which provide for a basis for Termination for Cause.  Further, a Notification for Cause shall be required to include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board which was called for the purpose of considering such termination and which Executive and his representative had the right to attend and address the Board, finding that, in the good faith of the Board, Executive engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of Cause herein and specifying the particulars thereof in reasonable detail.  The date of termination for a Termination for Cause shall be the date indicated in the Notice of Termination.  Any purported Termination for Cause which is held by a court not to have been based on the grounds set forth in this Agreement or not to have followed the procedures set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed a Termination by the Company without Cause.
(f)
                                   
Notice of Termination for Cause
 
.
8.
                                      
Consequences of Termination of Employment
 
.  If, Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death, the employment period under this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement except for:  (i) any compensation earned but not yet paid, including and without limitation, any bonus if declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year, any amount of Base Salary earned but unpaid, any accrued vacation pay payable pursuant to the Company's policies, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to Section 6 (collectively ""), which amounts shall be promptly paid in a lump sum to Executive's estate; (ii) any other amounts or benefits owing to the Executive under the then applicable employee benefit plans, long term incentive plans or equity plans and programs of the Company which shall be paid or treated in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (iii) continuation, for twelve (12) months following the date of death, of Executive's health benefits for Executive's dependents at the same level and cost as if Executive was an employee of the Company; and (iv) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive's death, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid when bonuses for such period are paid to the other executives.
(a)
                                 
Death
Accrued Amounts
 
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability, Executive shall be entitled to receive the payments and benefits to which his representatives would be entitled in the event of a termination of employment by reason of his death plus Executive shall be entitled to continuation, for twelve (12) months following such termination of employment, of group life and disability insurance benefits, as if Executive were an active employee of the Company.
(b)
                                
Disability
 
.  If (i) Executive terminates his employment hereunder for Good Reason during the Employment Term or (ii) Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause, then Executive shall be entitled to receive, (A) over a period of twelve (12) months after such termination (except as provided below) an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of his Base Salary and target bonus, if any, for the year in which such termination occurs (provided, however, in the event that the Base Salary or target bonus, if
(c)
                                 
Termination by Executive for Good Reason or Termination by the Company without Cause
any, has been decreased in the twelve (12) months prior to the termination, the amount to be used shall be the highest Base Salary and target bonus, if any, during such twelve (12) month period); (B) any Accrued Amounts at the date of termination; (C) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive under the then applicable employee benefit, long term incentive or equity plans and programs of the Company, which shall be paid or treated in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (D) continuation of the benefits (including without limitation to health, life, and disability) as if Executive were an employee of the Company for twelve (12) months, provided that, if such termination is after a Change in Control, the period of benefit continuation shall be twenty-four (24) months; and (E) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive's termination, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid when bonuses for such period are paid to the other executives.
 
To the extent that all or any portion of the amount payable pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) (A) of this Section 8(c) would be subject to the additional 20% tax imposed under Section 409A of the Code (the ""), the parties shall negotiate in good faith an alternative arrangement that will provide Executive with payments that are equivalent in value to the value of the 409A Affected Amount but would not be subject to such additional 20% tax; , , that the Company may in any event at its discretion elect to pay the 409A Affected Amount in the form of a lump sum cash payment, on the latest possible date permitted pursuant to the "short-term deferral" exception as promulgated in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 that would avoid such additional 20% tax, in an amount equal to the present value of the 409A Affected Amount on such payment date, with such present value determined based on an interest rate equal to the Company's then applicable cost of short-term borrowing; , , that if the Company does not elect to pay the discounted lump sum in the preceding proviso, then the provision of a delay in the time of payment of the 409A Affected Amount shall not be permitted without the consent of Executive.
409A Affected Amount
provided
however
provided
further
 
.  If, Executive's employment hereunder is terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or (ii) by Executive without Good Reason, the Executive shall be entitled to receive only his Base Salary through the date of termination, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to Section 6 and, if such termination is by Executive without Good Reason, any bonus that has been declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year.  Executive's rights under all benefits plans and equity grants shall be determined in accordance with the Company's plans, programs and grants.
(d)
                                
Termination with Cause or Voluntary Resignation without Good Reason
 
.  For purposes of this Agreement, a bonus in respect of services performed in a fiscal year shall not be considered to be earned until after the Committee and/or the Board, as applicable, has reviewed the Company's performance and Executive's performance in respect of such year and has determined the amount of the bonus, if any, to be payable to Executive in respect of such year's performance; , , that if the Executive is still employed by the Company as of December 31 of any year, the Executive shall be considered to have earned the bonus in respect of services performed in such year (to the extent that the Committee and/or the Board determine that such bonus would otherwise have been payable to the Executive had the Executive remained employed through the relevant payment date for such bonus) unless the Executive's employment is subsequently terminated by the Company for Cause or by the Executive without Good Reason.
(e)
                                 
Determination of Earned Bonus
provided
however
 
.  In the event of any termination of employment hereunder, Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment and there shall be no offset against any
9.
                                      
No Mitigation; No Set-Off
amounts due Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that Executive may obtain.  The amounts payable hereunder shall not be subject to setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or others, except upon obtaining by the Company of a final unappealable judgment against Executive.
 
.    (a)  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
10.
                                
Change in Control
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the ""); , , that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
 (i)
                                 
Company Voting Securities
provided
however
 
individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; , that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
(ii)
                                 
provided, however
provided, further
 
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a ""), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the ""), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the ""), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a ""); or
(iii)
                              
Reorganization
Sale
Surviving Entity
Parent Entity
Non-Qualifying Transaction
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)
                             
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; , , that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
provided
however
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(b)
                                
 
(i) "" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "");
Affiliate
Exchange Act
 
(ii) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
Beneficial Owner
 
 (iii) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of Common Stock or (5) the Executive or any group of persons including Executive (or any entity controlled by Executive or any group of persons including Executive).
Person
 
.  (a)  Executive acknowledges that as a result of his employment by the Company, Executive will obtain confidential information as to the Company and its affiliates and the Company and its affiliates will suffer substantial damage, which would be difficult to ascertain, if Executive should use such confidential information and that because of the nature of the information that will be known to Executive it is necessary for the Company and its affiliates to be protected by the Confidentiality restrictions set forth herein.
11.
                                
Confidential Information
 
During and for a period of five (5) years after the Employment Term, Executive shall not use for his own benefit or disclose confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company and its affiliates, and their respective businesses, including any confidential information as to customers of the Company and its affiliates obtained by Executive during his employment by the Company and its affiliates and
(b)
                                
not (i) otherwise public knowledge or known within the applicable industry or (ii) in connection with performance of his duties hereunder as he deems in good faith to be necessary or desirable.  Executive shall not, without prior written consent of the Company, unless compelled pursuant to the order of a court or other governmental or legal body having jurisdiction over such matter, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it.  In the event Executive is compelled by order of a court or other governmental or legal body to communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the foregoing, he shall promptly notify the Company of any such order so it may seek a protective order.
 
Upon termination of his employment with the Company and its affiliates, or at any time as the Company may request, Executive will promptly deliver to the Company, as requested, all documents (whether prepared by the Company, an affiliate, Executive or a third party) relating to the Company, an affiliate or any of their businesses or property which he may possess or have under his direction or control other than documents provided to Executive in his capacity as a participant in any employee benefit plan, policy or program of the Company or any agreement by and between Executive and the Company with regard to Executive's employment or severance.
(c)
                                 
 
In the event of a breach or potential breach of this Section 11, Executive acknowledges that the Company and its affiliates will be caused irreparable injury and that money damages may not be an adequate remedy and agree that the Company and its affiliates shall be entitled to injunctive relief (in addition to its other remedies at law) to have the provisions of this Section 11 enforced.  It is hereby acknowledged that the provisions of this Section 11 are for the benefit of the Company and all of the affiliates of the Company and each such entity may enforce the provisions of this Section 11 and only the applicable entity can waive the rights hereunder with respect to its confidential information and employees.
(d)
                                
 
. The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Executive to the fullest extent permitted by law for any action or inaction of Executive while serving as an officer and director of the Company or, at the Company's request, as an officer or director of any other entity or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan.  The Company shall cover the Executive under directors and officers liability insurance both during and, while potential liability exists, after the Employment Term in the same amount and to the same extent as the Company covers its other officers and directors.
12.
                                
Indemnification
 
.
13.
                                
Legal Fees
 
The Company shall pay the Executive's reasonable legal fees and costs associated with entering into this Agreement.
(a)
                                 
 
All disputes and controversies arising under or in connection with this Agreement, other than the seeking of injunctive or other equitable relief pursuant to Section 11 hereof, shall be settled by arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in New York City, New York, or such other location agreed by the parties hereto, in accordance with the rules for expedited resolution of commercial disputes of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The determination of the majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding on the parties.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction.  All expenses of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the counsel of the Executive, shall be borne by the Company unless the arbitrators determine that Executive's position was overall frivolous or otherwise taken in bad faith, in which case the arbitrators may determine that Executive shall bear his own legal fees.
(b)
                                
In the event after a Change in Control either party files for arbitration to resolve any dispute as to whether a termination is for Cause or Good Reason, until such dispute is determined by the arbitrators, the Executive shall continue to be treated economically and benefit wise in the manner asserted by him in the arbitration effective as of the date of the filing of the arbitration, subject to the Executive promptly refunding any amounts paid to him, paying the cost of any benefits provided to him and paying to the Company the profits in any stock option or other equity awards exercised or otherwise realized by him during the pendency of the arbitration which he is ultimately held not to be entitled to; provided the arbitrators may terminate such payments and benefits in the event that they determine at any point that the Executive is intentionally delaying conclusion of the arbitration.
(c)
                                 
 
.
14.
                                
Reserved
 
.
15.
                                
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
 
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any payment, award, benefit or distribution (or any acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or distribution) by the Company (or any of its affiliated entities) or any entity which effectuates a Change in Control (or any of its affiliated entities) to or for the benefit of Executive (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 15) (the "") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), or any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the ""), then the Company shall pay to Executive an additional payment (a "") in an amount such that after payment by Executive of all taxes (including any Excise Tax) imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the sum of (x) the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments and (y) the product of any deductions disallowed because of the inclusion of the Gross-up Payment in Executive's adjusted gross income and the highest applicable marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made.  For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-up Payment, the Executive shall be deemed to (i) pay federal income taxes at the highest marginal rates of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made, and (ii) pay applicable state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 15(a), if it shall be determined that Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the Payments would not be subject to the Excise Tax if the Payments were reduced by an amount that is less than 5% of the portion of the Payments that would be treated as "parachute payments" under Section 280G of the Code, then the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the maximum amount that could be paid to Executive without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the ""), and no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive.  The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing first the payments under Section 15, unless an alternative method of reduction is elected by Executive.  For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under this Agreement (and no other Payments) shall be reduced.  If the reduction of the amounts payable hereunder would not result in a reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, no amounts payable under this Agreement shall be reduced pursuant to this provision.
(a)
                                 
Payments
Code
Excise Tax
Gross-Up Payment
Safe Harbor Cap
 
(b)
                                
Subject to the provisions of Section 15(a), all determinations required to be made under this Section 15, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, the reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determinations, shall be made by the public accounting firm that is retained by the Company as
of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control (the "") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and Executive within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Company or the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company (collectively, the "").  In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change in Control, Executive may appoint another nationally recognized public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).  All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company and the Company shall enter into any agreement requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance of the services hereunder.  The Gross-up Payment under this Section 15 with respect to any Payments shall be made no later than thirty (30) days following such Payment.  If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive, it shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on Executive's applicable federal income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar penalty.  In the event the Accounting Firm determines that the Payments shall be reduced to the Safe Harbor Cap, it shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect.  The Determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and Executive.  As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the Determination, it is possible that Gross-up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("") or Gross-up Payments are made by the Company which should not have been made (""), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder.  In the event that the Executive thereafter is required to make payment of any Excise Tax or additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive.  In the event the amount of the Gross-up Payment exceeds the amount necessary to reimburse the Executive for his Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Overpayment that has been made and any such Overpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2) of the Code) shall be promptly paid by Executive (to the extent he has received a refund if the applicable Excise Tax has been paid to the Internal Revenue Service) to or for the benefit of the Company; provided, however, that such repayment obligation shall not apply to the extent it would be treated as a prohibited personal loan from the Company to Executive for purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Executive shall cooperate, to the extent his expenses are reimbursed by the Company, with any reasonable requests by the Company in connection with any contests or disputes with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the Excise Tax.
Accounting Firm
Determination
Underpayment
Overpayment
 
.
16.
                                
Miscellaneous
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(a)
                                 
Governing Law
 
.  This Agreement and the instruments contemplated herein, contain the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the employment of Executive by the Company from and after the Commencement Date and supersedes any prior agreements between the Company and Executive.  There are no restrictions, agreements, promises, warranties, covenants or undertakings between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein other than those expressly set forth herein and therein.  This Agreement may not be altered, modified, or amended except by written instrument signed by the parties hereto.
(b)
                                
Entire Agreement/Amendments
 
.  The failure of a party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion shall not be considered a waiver of such party's rights or deprive such party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement.  Any such
(c)
                                 
No Waiver
waiver must be in writing and signed by Executive or an authorized officer of the Company, as the case may be.
 
.  This Agreement shall not be assignable by Executive.  This Agreement shall be assignable by the Company only to an acquirer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, provided such acquirer promptly assumes all of the obligations hereunder of the Company in a writing delivered to the Executive and otherwise complies with the provisions hereof with regard to such assumption.
(d)
                                
Assignment
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees legatees and permitted assignees of the parties hereto.
(e)
                                 
Successors; Binding Agreement; Third Party Beneficiaries
 
.  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) when faxed or delivered, or (ii) two (2) business days after being mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the initial page of this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  Notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
(f)
                                   
Communications
 
.  The Company may withhold from any and all amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state and local taxes as may be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
(g)
                                
Withholding Taxes
 
.  The respective rights and obligations of the parties hereunder, including without limitation Section 11 hereof, shall survive any termination of Executive's employment to the extent necessary to the agreed preservation of such rights and obligations.
(h)
                                
Survivorship
 
.  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
(i)
                                    
Counterparts
 
.  The headings of the sections contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.
(j)
                                    
Headings
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.84
 
PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 1999 OMNIBUS PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made as of the          dayof                              by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal United States office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the "Company"), and                                                             (the "Participant").
 
Pursuant to terms of the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized this Agreement.  The Participant has been granted on [February     , 2005] (the "Grant Date"), subject to execution of this Agreement, the number of restricted shares of Company Stock (the "Restricted Stock") set forth below.  Unless otherwise indicated, any capitalized term used herein, but not defined herein, shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan.
 
The Grant
1.
                                      
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Participant is granted                           (                  ) shares of Restricted Stock.
(a)
                                 
 
Subject to Section 2 hereof, one-fourth (1/4) of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall vest on [February 28, 2006] (the "Initial Vesting Date") and an additional one-fourth (1/4) of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall vest on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Initial Vesting Date if on each such vesting date, the Participant has been in Continuous Service through such date.  For avoidance of doubt, there shall be no proportionate or partial vesting in the periods prior to each vesting date and vesting shall occur only on the applicable vesting dates pursuant to this Section 1(b).  Upon satisfaction of the vesting requirements set forth in this Section 1(b), the restrictions on the vested Restricted Stock, as set forth in Section 2 of this Agreement, shall lapse.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Continuous Service" shall mean the Participant's service with the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate whether as an employee, director or consultant, is not interrupted or terminated.
(b)
                                
 
Effect of Termination of Continuous Service; Change in Control
2.
                                      
 
Subject to Section 2(b) below, upon the Participant's termination of Continuous Service, the unvested portion of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the Participant shall be fully vested in all Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement, if  (i) the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date which is six (6) months after the
(b)
                                
 
 
effective date of the Change in Control.  In the event that the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated (other than for Cause) by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control or within six (6) months after the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement.  The determination of whether the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control shall be made by the Company, in its sole discretion.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(c)
                                 
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
(i)
                                    
 
individuals who, on the Grant Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Grant Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; provided, further, that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
(ii)
                                 
 
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "Reorganization") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a "Sale"), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the "Surviving Entity"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the "Parent Entity"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the
(iii)
                              
 
 
Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
 
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)
                             
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; provided, however, that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
 
For the purposes of Section 2(c), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(d)
                                
 
"Affiliate" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Exchange Act");
(i)
                                    
 
"Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
(ii)
                                 
 
"Person" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
(iii)
                              
 
 
proportions as their ownership of shares of Common Stock or (5) the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant, or any entity controlled by the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant; provided the Participant is an executive officer, director or more than 10% owner of Stock.
 
Nontransferability of Grant
3.
                                      
 
Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Plan, no unvested Restricted Stock shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged, or hypothecated in any way or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Prior to the vesting of any Restricted Stock, no transfer of the Participant's rights with respect to such Restricted Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted.  Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such Restricted Stock, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.
 
Dividend and Distribution Rights
4.
                                      
 
The Committee in its discretion may require any dividends or distribution paid on the Restricted Stock be held in escrow until all restrictions on such Restricted Stock have lapsed.
 
Stock; Adjustment Upon Certain Events.
5.
                                      
 
Stock to be issued under this Agreement shall be made available, at the discretion of the Board, either from authorized but unissued Stock, from issued Stock reacquired by the Company or from Stock purchased by the Company on the open market specifically for this purpose.
(a)
                                 
 
The existence of this Agreement and the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company or any affiliate, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Stock, the authorization or issuance of additional shares of Stock, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any affiliate or sale or transfer of all or part of the assets or business of the Company or any affiliate, or any other corporate act or proceeding.
(b)
                                
 
Determinations
6.
                                      
 
Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement by the Committee or the Board in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes and upon all persons, including, without limitation, the Participant and the Company, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and other successors in interest.
 
Other Conditions
7.
                                      
 
The transfer of any shares of Restricted Stock shall be effective only at such time as counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares of
 
 
Restricted Stock are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange on which Stock is traded.
 
Notification of Election Under Section 83(b) of the Code
8.
                                      
 
If the Participant shall, in connection with the grant of Restricted Stock under this Agreement, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (, an election to include in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within 10 days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service.
i.e.
 
Withholding Taxes
9.
                                      
 
The Participant shall be liable for any and all U.S. federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of Restricted Stock.  When the Restricted Stock vests, the Participant shall surrender to the Company a sufficient number of whole shares of Stock as necessary to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting.  The Company will provide the Participant with a cash refund for any fraction of surrendered shares of Stock not necessary for required withholding taxes and social security contributions.  Instead of requiring the Participant to surrender shares as described above, the Company may, in its discretion, (a) require the Participant to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting, or (b) deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations.
 
In lieu of surrendering shares of Stock to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions, the Participant may, by providing notice to the Company within 30 days of the Grant Date (a) elect to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, or (b) request the Company to deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, which request the Committee may choose to honor in its sole discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant makes an election under Section 8 above, the Participant shall remit to the Company in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy any withholding obligations at the time the notice described in Section 8 is delivered to the Company.
 
Distribution of Restricted Stock
10.
                                
 
Upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the restrictions of Sections 2 and 3 shall lapse with respect to such vested Restricted Stock.  Reasonably promptly after any Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant a certificate evidencing such Stock.
 
 
Miscellaneous
11.
                                
 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal legal representatives, successors, trustees, administrators, distributees, devisees and legatees.  The Company shall assign to, and require, any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree in writing to perform this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may not be assigned by the Participant.
(a)
                                 
 
No modification or waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the party against whom it is sought to be enforced.
(b)
                                
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
The failure of any party hereto at any time to require performance by another party of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the right of such party to require performance of that provision, and any waiver by any party of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding breach of such provision, a waiver of the provision itself, or a waiver of any right under this Agreement.
(d)
                                
 
The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall in no way restrict or modify any of the terms or provisions hereof.
(e)
                                 
 
The Company shall pay all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection with this Agreement and will from time to time use its reasonable efforts to comply with all laws and regulations which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, are applicable thereto.
(f)
                                   
 
All notices, consents, requests, approvals, instructions and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and validly given or made when delivered, or on the second succeeding business day after being mailed by registered or certified mail, whichever is earlier, to the persons entitled or required to receive the same, at the addresses set forth at the heading of this Agreement or to such other address as either party may designate by like notice.  Notices to the Company shall be addressed to its principal office, attention of the Company's General Counsel.
(g)
                                
 
The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the matters described herein and supercede all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
(h)
                                
 
This Agreement shall be governed and construed and the legal relationships of the parties determined in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(i)
                                    
 
 
The Company represents and warrants that it is duly authorized by its Board and/or the Committee (and by any other person or body whose authorization is required) to enter into this Agreement, that there is no agreement or other legal restriction which would prevent it from entering into, and carrying out its obligations under, this Agreement, and that the officer signing this Agreement is duly authorized and empowered to sign this Agreement on behalf of the Company.
(j)
                                    
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.85
 
PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 1999 OMNIBUS PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made as of the     day of                        by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal United States office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the "Company"), and                                          (the "Participant").
 
Pursuant to terms of the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized this Agreement.  The Participant has been granted on [February      , 2005] (the "Grant Date"), subject to execution of this Agreement, the number of restricted shares of Company Stock (the "Restricted Stock") set forth below.  Unless otherwise indicated, any capitalized term used herein, but not defined herein, shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan.
 
The Grant
1.
                                      
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Participant is granted                            (               )shares of Restricted Stock.
(a)
                                 
 
Subject to Section 2 hereof, one-fourth (1/4) of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall vest on [February 28, 2006] (the "Initial Vesting Date") and an additional one-fourth (1/4) of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall vest on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Initial Vesting Date if on each such vesting date, the Participant has been in Continuous Service through such date.  For avoidance of doubt, there shall be no proportionate or partial vesting in the periods prior to each vesting date and vesting shall occur only on the applicable vesting dates pursuant to this Section 1(b).  Upon satisfaction of the vesting requirements set forth in this Section 1(b), the restrictions on the vested Restricted Stock, as set forth in Section 2 of this Agreement, shall lapse.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Continuous Service" shall mean the Participant's service with the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate whether as an employee, director or consultant, is not interrupted or terminated.
(b)
                                
 
Effect of Termination of Continuous Service; Change in Control
2.
                                      
 
Subject to Section 2(b) below, upon the Participant's termination of Continuous Service, the unvested portion of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the Participant shall be fully vested in all Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement, if  (i) the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date which is six (6) months after the effective date of the Change in Control.  In the event that the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated (other than for Cause) by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control or within six (6) months after the
(b)
                                
 
 
effective date of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement.  The determination of whether the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control shall be made by the Company, in its sole discretion.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(c)
                                 
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
(i)
                                    
 
individuals who, on the Grant Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Grant Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; provided, further, that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
(ii)
                                 
 
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "Reorganization") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a "Sale"), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the "Surviving Entity"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the "Parent Entity"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the
(iii)
                              
 
 
Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
 
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)
                             
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; provided, however, that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
 
For the purposes of Section 2(c), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(d)
                                
 
"Affiliate" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Exchange Act");
(i)
                                    
 
"Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
(ii)
                                 
 
"Person" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same
(iii)
                              
 
 
proportions as their ownership of shares of Common Stock or (5) the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant, or any entity controlled by the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant; provided the Participant is an executive officer, director or more than 10% owner of Stock.
 
Nontransferability of Grant
3.
                                      
 
Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Plan, no unvested Restricted Stock shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged, or hypothecated in any way or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Prior to the vesting of any Restricted Stock, no transfer of the Participant's rights with respect to such Restricted Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted.  Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such Restricted Stock, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.
 
Dividend and Distribution Rights
4.
                                      
 
The Committee in its discretion may require any dividends or distribution paid on the Restricted Stock be held in escrow until all restrictions on such Restricted Stock have lapsed.
 
Stock; Adjustment Upon Certain Events.
5.
                                      
 
Stock to be issued under this Agreement shall be made available, at the discretion of the Board, either from authorized but unissued Stock, from issued Stock reacquired by the Company or from Stock purchased by the Company on the open market specifically for this purpose.
(a)
                                 
 
The existence of this Agreement and the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company or any affiliate, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Stock, the authorization or issuance of additional shares of Stock, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any affiliate or sale or transfer of all or part of the assets or business of the Company or any affiliate, or any other corporate act or proceeding.
(b)
                                
 
Determinations
6.
                                      
 
Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement by the Committee or the Board in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes and upon all persons, including, without limitation, the Participant and the Company, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and other successors in interest.
 
Other Conditions
7.
                                      
 
The transfer of any shares of Restricted Stock shall be effective only at such time as counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares of
 
 
Restricted Stock are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange on which Stock is traded.
 
Withholding Taxes
8.
                                      
 
The Participant shall be liable for any and all taxes and contributions of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of Restricted Stock (including Secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contribution amounts determined in accordance with Section 8(b) below).  The Participant agrees that the Participant's employer (the "Employer") may, in its discretion, (i) require the Participant to remit to the Employer on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy all applicable required withholding taxes and contributions related to such vesting, or (ii) deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations.
(a)
                                 
 
The vesting of Restricted Stock is subject to the execution of a joint election between the Employer and the Participant being formally approved by Inland Revenue and remaining in force thereafter to provide for the transfer of any Secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contribution liability in connection with the Participant's vesting in Restricted Stock.  By accepting the Restricted Stock, Participant hereby consents to and agrees to satisfy any liability the Employer realizes with respect to Secondary Class 1 National Insurance Contribution payments required to be paid by the Employer in connection with the Restricted Stock.  If the Company determines that any additional consents and/or elections are required to accomplish the foregoing, Participant agrees to provide them promptly upon request.
(b)
                                
 
Distribution of Restricted Stock
9.
                                      
 
Upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the restrictions of Sections 2 and 3 shall lapse with respect to such vested Restricted Stock.  Reasonably promptly after any Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant a certificate evidencing such Stock.
 
Data Privacy
10.
                                
 
The Participant explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant's personal data by and among, as applicable, the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant's participation in the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan.  The Participant hereby understands that the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates hold certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, the Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares of Stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock or any other entitlement to shares of Stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").  The Participant hereby understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located
 
 
in the Participant's country or elsewhere (including countries outside of the European Union), and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant's country.  The Participant hereby understands that the Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the Participant's local human resources representative.  The Participant authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Participant's participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Participant may elect to deposit any shares acquired upon vesting of the Restricted Stock.  The Participant hereby understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant's participation in the Plan.  The Participant hereby understands that the Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Participant's local human resources representative.  The Participant hereby understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing the Participant's consent may affect the Participant's ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of the Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant hereby understands that the Participant may contact the Participant's local human resources representative.
 
Nature of Grant
11.
                                
 
The Participant acknowledges and agrees that: (a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time;  (b) the grant of Restricted Stock is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Restricted Stock, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock, even if Restricted Stock has been granted repeatedly in the past; (c) all decisions with respect to future Restricted Stock grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company; (d) Participation in the Plan is voluntary; (e) the Restricted Stock is not a part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments; (f) the future value of the underlying shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty; and (g) in consideration of the grant of Restricted Stock, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the Restricted Stock or diminution in value of the Restricted Stock or shares received upon vesting including (without limitation) any claim or entitlement resulting from termination of the Participant's active employment by the Company or a Subsidiary or Affiliate (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and the Participant hereby releases the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by signing this Restricted Stock Agreement, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived the Participant's entitlement to pursue such claim.
 
 
Miscellaneous
12.
                                
 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal legal representatives, successors, trustees, administrators, distributees, devisees and legatees.  The Company shall assign to, and require, any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree in writing to perform this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may not be assigned by the Participant.
(a)
                                 
 
No modification or waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the party against whom it is sought to be enforced.
(b)
                                
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
The failure of any party hereto at any time to require performance by another party of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the right of such party to require performance of that provision, and any waiver by any party of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding breach of such provision, a waiver of the provision itself, or a waiver of any right under this Agreement.
(d)
                                
 
The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall in no way restrict or modify any of the terms or provisions hereof.
(e)
                                 
 
The Company shall pay all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection with this Agreement and will from time to time use its reasonable efforts to comply with all laws and regulations which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, are applicable thereto.
(f)
                                   
 
All notices, consents, requests, approvals, instructions and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and validly given or made when delivered, or on the second succeeding business day after being mailed by registered or certified mail, whichever is earlier, to the persons entitled or required to receive the same, at the addresses set forth at the heading of this Agreement or to such other address as either party may designate by like notice.  Notices to the Company shall be addressed to its principal office, attention of the Company's General Counsel.
(g)
                                
 
The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the matters described herein and supercede all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
(h)
                                
 
This Agreement shall be governed and construed and the legal relationships of the parties determined in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(i)
                                    
 
 
The Company represents and warrants that it is duly authorized by its Board and/or the Committee (and by any other person or body whose authorization is required) to enter into this Agreement, that there is no agreement or other legal restriction which would prevent it from entering into, and carrying out its obligations under, this Agreement, and that the officer signing this Agreement is duly authorized and empowered to sign this Agreement on behalf of the Company.
(j)
                                    
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.86
 
PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 1999 OMNIBUS PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made as of the       day of                   , by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal United States office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the "Company"), and                                     (the "Participant").
 
Pursuant to terms of the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized this Agreement.  The Participant has been granted on                       , 2005 (the "Grant Date"), subject to execution of this Agreement, the number of restricted shares of Company Stock (the "Restricted Stock") set forth below.  Unless otherwise indicated, any capitalized term used herein, but not defined herein, shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan.
 
The Grant
1.
                                      
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Participant is granted                                        (                  ) shares of Restricted Stock.
(a)
                                 
 
Subject to Section 2 hereof,                       (            ) shares of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement (the "Consideration Shares") shall vest on [February 28, 2006].  For avoidance of doubt, there shall be no proportionate or partial vesting of Consideration Shares prior to [February 28, 2006].  All other shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement which are not Consideration Shares shall be referred to as "General Shares".
(b)
                                
 
Subject to Section 3 hereof, one-fourth (1/4) of the General Shares shall vest on [February 28, 2006] (the "Initial General Shares Vesting Date") and an additional one-fourth (1/4) of the General Shares shall vest on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the Initial General Shares Vesting Date if on each such vesting date, the Participant has been in Continuous Service through such date.  For avoidance of doubt, there shall be no proportionate or partial vesting of General Shares in the periods prior to each vesting date and vesting shall occur only on the applicable vesting dates pursuant to this Section 1(c).  Upon satisfaction of the vesting requirements set forth in this Section 1(c), the restrictions on the vested General Shares, as set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement, shall lapse.
(c)
                                 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Continuous Service" shall mean the Participant's service with the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate as an employee is not interrupted or terminated.
(d)
                                
 
 
Restrictions On Consideration Shares
2.
                                      
 
If, prior to [February 28, 2006], the Participant in any way fails to comply with the terms and conditions of Addendum A, all Consideration Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
 
If the Participant has a termination of Continuous Service as a result of the Participant's death prior to [February 28, 2006], all Consideration Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(b)
                                
 
In the event of a Change in Control occurring prior to [February 28, 2006], the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares, if  (i) the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date which is the earlier of [February 28, 2006] or six (6) months after the effective date of the Change in Control.  In the event that the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated prior to February 28, 2006 (other than for Cause) by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares. The determination of whether the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control shall be made by the Company, in its sole discretion.  If there is a Change in Control prior to February 28, 2006 and the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company during the period beginning on the effective date of such Change in Control and ending on the earlier of [February 28, 2006] or the date which is six (6) months after the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares.
(c)
                                 
 
Restrictions on General Shares
3.
                                      
 
Subject to Section 3(b) below, upon the Participant's termination of Continuous Service, the unvested portion of the General Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the Participant shall be fully vested in all General Shares, if  (i) the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date which is six (6) months after the effective date of the Change in Control.  In the event that the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated (other than for Cause) by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control or within six (6) months after the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all General Shares.  The determination of whether the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control shall be made by the Company, in its sole discretion.
(b)
                                
 
Definition of Change in Control
4.
                                      
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(a)
                                 
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for
(i)
                                    
 
 
the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
 
individuals who, on the Grant Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Grant Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; provided, further, that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
(ii)
                                 
 
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "Reorganization") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a "Sale"), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the "Surviving Entity"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the "Parent Entity"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria
(iii)
                              
 
 
specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
 
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)
                             
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; provided, however, that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
 
For the purposes of Section 4(a), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(b)
                                
 
"Affiliate" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Exchange Act");
(i)
                                    
 
"Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
(ii)
                                 
 
"Person" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of Stock or (5) the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant, or any entity controlled by the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant; provided the Participant is an executive officer, director or more than 10% owner of Stock.
(iii)
                              
 
Nontransferability of Grant
5.
                                      
 
Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Plan, no unvested Restricted Stock shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged, or hypothecated in any way or be subject to execution, attachment
 
 
or similar process.  Prior to the vesting of any Restricted Stock, no transfer of the Participant's rights with respect to such Restricted Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted.  Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such Restricted Stock, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.
 
Dividend and Distribution Rights
6.
                                      
 
The Committee in its discretion may require any dividends or distribution paid on the Restricted Stock be held in escrow until all restrictions on such Restricted Stock have lapsed.
 
Stock; Adjustment Upon Certain Events.
7.
                                      
 
Stock to be issued under this Agreement shall be made available, at the discretion of the Board, either from authorized but unissued Stock, from issued Stock reacquired by the Company or from Stock purchased by the Company on the open market specifically for this purpose.
(a)
                                 
 
The existence of this Agreement and the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company or any affiliate, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Stock, the authorization or issuance of additional shares of Stock, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any affiliate or sale or transfer of all or part of the assets or business of the Company or any affiliate, or any other corporate act or proceeding.
(b)
                                
 
Determinations
8.
                                      
 
Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement by the Committee or the Board in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes and upon all persons, including, without limitation, the Participant and the Company, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and other successors in interest.
 
Other Conditions
9.
                                      
 
The transfer of any shares of Restricted Stock shall be effective only at such time as counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares of Restricted Stock are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange on which Stock is traded.
 
Notification of Election Under Section 83(b) of the Code
10.
                                
 
If the Participant shall, in connection with the grant of Restricted Stock under this Agreement, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (, an election to include in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within 10 days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service.
i.e.
 
 
Withholding Taxes
11.
                                
 
The Participant shall be liable for any and all U.S. federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of Restricted Stock.  When the Restricted Stock vests, the Participant shall surrender to the Company a sufficient number of whole shares of Stock as necessary to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting.  The Company will provide the Participant with a cash refund for any fraction of surrendered shares of Stock not necessary for required withholding taxes and social security contributions.  Instead of requiring the Participant to surrender shares as described above, the Company may, in its discretion, (a) require the Participant to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting, or (b) deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations.
 
In lieu of surrendering shares of Stock to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions, the Participant may, by providing notice to the Company within 30 days of the Grant Date (a) elect to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, or (b) request the Company to deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, which request the Committee may choose to honor in its sole discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant makes an election under Section 10 above, the Participant shall remit to the Company in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy any withholding obligations at the time the notice described in Section 10 is delivered to the Company.
 
Distribution of Restricted Stock
12.
                                
 
Upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the restrictions of Sections 2 or 3 (as the case may be) and Section 5 shall lapse with respect to such vested Restricted Stock.  Reasonably promptly after any Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant a certificate evidencing such Stock.
 
Miscellaneous
13.
                                
 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal legal representatives, successors, trustees, administrators, distributees, devisees and legatees.  The Company shall assign to, and require, any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree in writing to perform this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may not be assigned by the Participant.
(a)
                                 
 
No modification or waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the party against whom it is sought to be enforced.
(b)
                                
 
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
The failure of any party hereto at any time to require performance by another party of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the right of such party to require performance of that provision, and any waiver by any party of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding breach of such provision, a waiver of the provision itself, or a waiver of any right under this Agreement.
(d)
                                
 
The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall in no way restrict or modify any of the terms or provisions hereof.
(e)
                                 
 
The Company shall pay all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection with this Agreement and will from time to time use its reasonable efforts to comply with all laws and regulations which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, are applicable thereto.
(f)
                                   
 
All notices, consents, requests, approvals, instructions and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and validly given or made when delivered, or on the second succeeding business day after being mailed by registered or certified mail, whichever is earlier, to the persons entitled or required to receive the same, at the addresses set forth at the heading of this Agreement or to such other address as either party may designate by like notice.  Notices to the Company shall be addressed to its principal office, attention of the Company's General Counsel.
(g)
                                
 
The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the matters described herein and supercede all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
(h)
                                
 
This Agreement shall be governed and construed and the legal relationships of the parties determined in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(i)
                                    
 
The Company represents and warrants that it is duly authorized by its Board and/or the Committee (and by any other person or body whose authorization is required) to enter into this Agreement, that there is no agreement or other legal restriction which would prevent it from entering into, and carrying out its obligations under, this Agreement, and that the officer signing this Agreement is duly authorized and empowered to sign this Agreement on behalf of the Company.
(j)
                                    
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
This Noncompetition, Nonsolicitation and Nondisclosure Agreement (the "") is dated February      , 2005 by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (""), and ("").
Agreement
Company
[executive's name]
Executive
 
The parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
 
1.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that the Company has expended and shall continue to expend substantial amounts of time, money and effort to develop business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill and build an effective organization.  The Executive acknowledges that the Executive is and shall become familiar with the Company's Confidential Information (as defined below), including trade secrets, and that the Executive's services are of special, unique and extraordinary value to the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates (as defined below).  The Executive acknowledges that the Company has a legitimate business interest and right in protecting its Confidential Information, business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill, and that the Company would be seriously and irreparably damaged by the disclosure of Confidential Information and the loss or deterioration of its business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill.  For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, with respect to any specified person or entity, any other person or entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, such specified person or entity; and "" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "" and ""), as used with respect to any person or entity, means the direct or indirect possession of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such person or entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
(a)
                                 
Affiliate
Control
Controlled by
under common Control with
 
The Executive acknowledges (i) that the business of the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates will be global in scope and without geographical limitation and (ii) notwithstanding the jurisdiction of formation or principal office of the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates, or any of their respective executives or employees (including, without limitation, the Executive), it is expected that the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates will have business activities and have valuable business relationships within its industry throughout the world.  In addition, the Executive agrees and acknowledges that the potential harm to the Company of the non-enforcement of Section 2, 3, 4 or 5 outweighs any potential harm to the Executive of its enforcement by injunction or otherwise.
(b)
                                
 
The Executive acknowledges that he has carefully read this Agreement and has given careful consideration to the restraints imposed upon the Executive by this Agreement, and is in full accord as to their necessity for the reasonable and proper protection of the Confidential Information, business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates now existing or to be developed in the future.  The Executive expressly acknowledges and agrees that each and every restraint imposed by this Agreement is reasonable with respect to subject matter, time period and geographical area.  The Executive further acknowledges that although the Executive's compliance with the covenants
(c)
                                 
 
 
contained in Sections 2, 3 and 4 may prevent the Executive from earning a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, the Executive's experience and capabilities are such that the Executive has other opportunities to earn a livelihood and adequate means of support for the Executive and the Executive's dependents.
 
2.
NONCOMPETITION AND NONSOLICITATION
                                     
 
The Executive agrees that the Executive shall not, while an employee of the Company, and for the duration of the Restriction Period (as defined below), directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Company:
(a)
                                 
 
(A)engage in any activities, in any capacity, for or on behalf of or invest in any of the following companies or their successors (the ""):  (i) any travel businesses of InterActive Corporation, provided that the restriction in this clause (i)(A)(i) shall cease to apply upon the completion of the spin-off of Expedia from InterActive Corporation; (ii) Expedia, Hotels.com & Hotwire; (iii) Sabre Group; (iv) Lastminute.com plc; (v) the following companies or divisions owned or controlled by Cendant's Travel Distribution Services (a subsidiary of Cendant Corporation):  Orbitz, CheapTickets, Lodging.com, the Neat Group and Galileo; (vi) the following on-line travel aggregators: SideStep, Inc. (owner and operator of the website SideStep.com), Mobissimo, Inc. (owner and operator of the website Mobissimo.com), Cheapflights Limited (owner and operator of the website Cheapflights.com), Farechase, Kayak.com, or any substantially similar on-line travel search business; and (vii) on-line travel search businesses of Yahoo!, MSN, AOL or Google;
(i)
                                    
                             
Competitive Activities
 
solicit or attempt to solicit any customer or client or actively sought prospective customer or client of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates, with respect to the businesses actively operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates (it being intended that businesses owned but not operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates, such as, as of the date hereof, the Company's mortgage business, are not to be covered by this clause (B)), to purchase any travel related goods or services of the type sold by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates from anyone other than the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; , that the general advertisement for goods or services, other than on behalf of an entity identified in Section 2(a)(i)(A)(i) through (vii) above, shall not violate the terms of this Section 2(a)(i)(B) or
(B)
                               
provided, however
 
assist any person or entity in any way to do, or attempt to do, anything prohibited by (A) or (B) above; or
(C)
                               
 
(A)solicit, recruit or hire any employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates or any persons who, within one year of such solicitation, recruitment or hire, have worked for the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates;
(ii)
                                 
                             
 
solicit or encourage any employee of Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates to leave the services of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; and
(B)
                               
 
intentionally interfere with the relationship of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates with any person who or which is employed by or otherwise
(C)
                               
 
 
engaged to perform services for the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; provided, that neither (1) the general advertisement for employees or the general solicitation of employees by a recruiter or (2) the Executive's being named as an employment reference for a current or former employee of the Company and responding to ordinary course inquiries made of the Executive by prospective employers of such employee in connection with such reference, shall be deemed a violation of this clause (ii).
 
The "" means the one-year period following the cessation or termination of the Executive's employment with the Company for any reason.  The Restriction Period shall be tolled during (and shall be deemed automatically extended by) any period in which the Executive is in violation of the provisions of this Section 2.
Restriction Period
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the foregoing covenant will not be deemed breached as a result of (i) the Executive's passive ownership of less than an aggregate of 5% of any class of securities of a person or entity engaged, directly or indirectly, in Competitive Activities; , , that such stock is listed on a national securities exchange or is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ; or (ii) the Executive having an ownership interest in any of the companies or businesses listed or described in Section 2(a)(i)(A)(ii) through (vii) provided that the services performed by the Executive in the course of such activities are not in any way connected with the activities of such companies or businesses.
(b)
                                
provided
however
 
If a final and non-appealable judicial determination is made that any of the provisions of this Section 2 constitutes an unreasonable or otherwise unenforceable restriction against the Executive, the provisions of this Section 2 will not be rendered void but will be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to remain in force and effect for the longest period and largest geographic area that would not constitute such an unreasonable or unenforceable restriction.  Moreover, notwithstanding the fact that any provision of this Section 2 is determined not to be specifically enforceable, the Company will nevertheless be entitled to recover monetary damages as a result of the Executive's breach of such provision.
(c)
                                 
 
3.
NONDISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that the Confidential Information obtained by the Executive while employed by the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates is the property of the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates, as applicable.  Therefore, the Executive agrees that the Executive shall not disclose to any unauthorized person or entity or use for the Executive's own purposes any Confidential Information without the prior written consent of the Company, unless and to the extent that the aforementioned matters (i) become generally known to and available for use by the public other than as a result of the Executive's acts or omissions in violation of this Agreement or (ii) were within the Executive's possession prior to its being obtained by the Executive in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates; , , that if the Executive receives a request to disclose Confidential Information pursuant to a deposition, interrogation, request for information or documents in legal proceedings, subpoena, civil investigative demand, governmental or regulatory process or similar process, (A) the Executive shall promptly notify in writing the Company, and consult with and assist the Company in seeking a protective order or
                (a)
                                 
provided
however
 
 
request for other appropriate remedy, (B) in the event that such protective order or remedy is not obtained, or if the Company waive compliance with the terms hereof, the Executive shall disclose only that portion of the Confidential Information which, in the written opinion of the Executive's legal counsel, is legally required to be disclosed and shall exercise reasonable best efforts to assure that confidential treatment shall be accorded to such Confidential Information by the receiving person or entity and (C) the Company shall be given an opportunity to review the Confidential Information prior to disclosure thereof.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means information, observations and data concerning the business or affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates, including, without limitation, all business information (whether or not in written form) which relates to the Company, its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or their customers, suppliers or contractors or any other third parties in respect of which the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates has a business relationship or owes a duty of confidentiality, or their respective businesses or products, and which is not known to the public generally other than as a result of the Executive's breach of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  technical information or reports; trade secrets; unwritten knowledge and "know-how"; operating instructions; training manuals; customer lists; customer buying records and habits; product sales records and documents, and product development, marketing and sales strategies; market surveys; marketing plans; profitability analyses; product cost; long-range plans; information relating to pricing, competitive strategies and new product development; information relating to any forms of compensation or other personnel-related information; contracts; and supplier lists.  Confidential Information will not include such information known to the Executive prior to the Executive's involvement with the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates or information rightfully obtained from a third party (other than pursuant to a breach by the Executive of this Agreement).  Without limiting the foregoing, the Executive agrees to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning, any dispute between the Executive and the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates, except that the Executive may disclose information concerning such dispute to the court that is considering such dispute or to the Executive's legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of such dispute).
                (b)
                                
Confidential Information
 
Except as expressly set forth otherwise in this Agreement, the Executive agrees that the Executive shall not disclose the terms of this Agreement, except to the Executive's immediate family and the Executive's financial and legal advisors, or as may be required by law or ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.  The Executive further agrees that any disclosure to the Executive's financial and legal advisors will only be made after such advisors acknowledge and agree to maintain the confidentiality of this Agreement and its terms.
                (c)
                                 
 
The Executive further agrees that the Executive will not improperly use or disclose any confidential information or trade secrets, if any, of any former employers or any other person or entity to whom the Executive has an obligation of confidentiality, and will not bring onto the premises of the Company, its subsidiaries or Affiliates any unpublished documents or any property belonging to any former employer or any other person or entity to whom the Executive has an obligation of confidentiality unless consented to in writing by the former employer or person or entity.
                (d)
                                
 
 
4.
RETURN OF PROPERTY
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that all notes, memoranda, specifications, devices, formulas, records, files, lists, drawings, documents, models, equipment, property, computer, software or intellectual property relating to the businesses of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates, in whatever form (including electronic), and all copies thereof, that are received or created by the Executive while an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates (including but not limited to Confidential Information) are and shall remain the property of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates, and the Executive shall immediately return such property to the Company upon the termination of the Executive's employment and, in any event, at the Company's request.  The Executive further agrees that any property situated on the premises of, and owned by, the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates, including disks and other storage media, filing cabinets or other work areas, is subject to inspection by Company's personnel at any time with or without notice.
 
5.
NONDISPARAGEMENT
                                     
 
While an employee of the Company, and for the one-year period following cessation or the termination of the Executive's employment with the Company for any reason, neither Executive nor the Company shall publicly or with the intent to become public make any statements, written or oral, which disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of, in the Executive's case, the Company formally or, its directors or senior officers or, in the Company's case, the Executive.
 
6.
NOTIFICATION OF SUBSEQUENT EMPLOYER
                                     
 
The Executive hereby agrees that prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity during any period during which the Executive remains subject to any of the covenants set forth in Section 2, the Executive shall provide such prospective employer with written notice of such provisions of this Agreement, with a copy of such notice delivered simultaneously to the Company.
 
7.
REMEDIES AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that a violation by the Executive of any of the covenants contained in Section 2, 3, 4 or 5 would cause irreparable damage to the Company in an amount that would be material but not readily ascertainable, and that any remedy at law (including the payment of damages) would be inadequate.  Accordingly, the Executive agrees that, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall be entitled (without the necessity of showing economic loss or other actual damage) to injunctive relief (including temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and/or permanent injunctions) in any court of competent jurisdiction for any actual or threatened breach of any of the covenants set forth in Section 2, 3, 4 or 5 in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies it may have.  The preceding sentence shall not be construed as a waiver of the rights that the Company may have for damages under this Agreement or otherwise, and all of the Company's rights shall be unrestricted.
 
 
   In consideration for the Executive's covenants herein, the Company has granted to the Executive the Consideration Shares, as defined in the Restricted Stock Agreement by and between the Company and the Executive dated [February 1, 2005].
8.
CONSIDERATION.
                                     
 
9.
MISCELLANEOUS
                                     
 
.  All notices, consents, waivers, and other communications under this Agreement must be in writing and will be deemed given to a party when (i) delivered to the appropriate address by hand or by nationally recognized overnight courier service (costs prepaid, with written confirmation of receipt); (ii) sent by facsimile with written confirmation of transmission by the transmitting equipment, provided that a copy is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested; or (iii) received or rejected by the addressee, if sent by certified mail, return receipt requested; in each case to the following addresses or facsimile numbers and marked to the attention of the individual (by name or title) designated below (or to such other address, facsimile number, or individual as a party may designate by notice to the other parties):
(a)
                                 
Notices
 
if to the Company, to:
(i)
                                    
 
priceline.com Incorporated
800 Connecticut Avenue
Norwalk, CT  06854
Attention:  Peter J. Millones, Executive President and General
Counsel
fax:  203-299-8915
 
if to Executive, to Executive's address on the books and records of the Company from time to time
(ii)
                                 
 
or such other addresses as the parties may have furnished to each other pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
 
.  This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements between the parties with respect to its subject matter, and constitutes a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter. This Agreement may not be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified except by a written agreement executed by the parties.
                (b)
                                
Entire Agreement and Modification
 
.  In this Agreement, the word "including" indicates examples of a foregoing general statement and not a limitation on that general statement.  No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted for or against any party because that party or its legal representative drafted the provision.
                (c)
Construction
                                 
 
.  The Company may assign this Agreement or any of its rights and duties hereunder, without Executive's consent, to any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any person or entity which acquires all or substantially all of the assets or business of the Company or any of the Company's divisions.  This Agreement is personal to Executive and may not be assigned by Executive.  Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will apply to,
                (d)
                                
Assignments
 
 
be binding in all respects upon, and inure to the benefit of Executive's heirs, executors, administrators and permitted assigned and the Company's successors and permitted assigns.
 
.  The parties' rights hereunder are cumulative and not alternative.  Neither the failure nor any delay by any party in exercising any right, power, or privilege hereunder will operate as a waiver of such right, power, or privilege, and no single or partial exercise of any such right, power, or privilege will preclude any other or further exercise of such right, power, or privilege or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege.  To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law:  (i) no claim or right arising out of this Agreement can be discharged by a party, in whole or in part, by a waiver or renunciation of the claim or right unless in writing signed by the other party; (ii) no waiver that may be given by a party will be applicable except in the specific instance for which it is given; and (iii) no notice to or demand on one party will be deemed to be a waiver of any obligation of such party or of the right of the party giving such notice or demand to take further action without notice or demand as provided herein.  The Executive will not assert that the Company's failure or refusal to enforce or delay in enforcing against any of its other employees or former employees any agreement containing obligations identical or similar to those contained in this Agreement constitutes a waiver of the Company's rights hereunder.
                (e)
                                 
Waiver
 
.  This Agreement will be governed by and construed under the laws of Connecticut without regard to conflicts of laws principles that would require the application of any other law.  Any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement may be brought in the courts of the State of Connecticut, County of Fairfield, or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the United States District Court for Connecticut.  Each of the parties irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection it may now or hereafter have to venue or convenience of forum.  Process in any action or proceeding referred to in the preceding sentence may be served on any party anywhere in the world.
                (g)
                                
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Service of Process
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts.
                (h)
                                
Counterparts
 
The parties have executed this Agreement on the date first written above.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.87
 
PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 1999 OMNIBUS PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made as of the 1st day of February 2005, by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal United States office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the "Company"), and Jeffery H. Boyd (the "Participant").
 
Pursuant to terms of the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized this Agreement.  The Participant has been granted on February 12005 (the "Grant Date"), subject to execution of this Agreement, the number of restricted shares of Company Stock (the "Restricted Stock") set forth below.  Unless otherwise indicated, any capitalized term used herein, but not defined herein, shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan.
,
 
The Grant
1.
                                      
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Participant is granted fifty thousand (50,000) shares of Restricted Stock.
(a)
                                 
 
Subject to Section 2 hereof, ten thousand (10,000) shares of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement (the "Consideration Shares") shall vest on February 28, 2006.  For avoidance of doubt, there shall be no proportionate or partial vesting of Consideration Shares prior to February 28, 2006.  All other shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement which are not Consideration Shares shall be referred to as "General Shares".
(b)
                                
 
Subject to Section 3 hereof, all of the General Shares shall vest on February 28, 2008.
(c)
                                 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Continuous Service" shall mean the Participant's service with the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate as an employee is not interrupted or terminated.
(d)
                                
 
Restrictions On Consideration Shares
2.
                                      
 
Notwithstanding anything in the Employment Agreement (as defined in this Section 2(a)) to the contrary, if, prior to February 28, 2006, the Participant in any way fails to comply with the terms and conditions of Section 15(b) and 15(c) of that certain employment agreement, dated February 7, 2005, by and between the Company and Participant (the "Employment Agreement"), all Consideration Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
Notwithstanding anything in the Employment Agreement to the contrary, if the Participant has a termination of Continuous Service as a result of the Participant's death prior to February 28, 2006, all Consideration Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(b)
                                
 
In the event of a Change in Control occurring prior to February 28, 2006, the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares, if  (i) the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date which is the earlier of February 28, 2006 or six (6) months after the effective date of the Change in Control.  In the event that the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated prior to February 28, 2006 (other than for Cause) by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares. The determination of whether the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control shall be made by the Company, in its sole discretion.  If there is a Change in Control prior to February 28, 2006 and the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company during the period beginning on the effective date of such Change in Control and ending on the earlier of February 28, 2006 or the date which is six (6) months after the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares.  For purposes of this Section 2(c), the term "Change in Control" shall have the meaning given such term under the Employment Agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
Restrictions on General Shares
3.
                                      
 
Except as otherwise provided under the Employment Agreement and subject to Section 3(b) below, upon the Participant's termination of Continuous Service, the unvested portion of the General Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
 
If the Participant has a termination of Continuous Service as the result of a "Termination without Cause" or a "Termination for Good Reason" (as those terms are defined under the Employment Agreement), the Participant shall be fully vested in (i) the number of General Shares determined by multiplying the total number of General Shares granted under this Agreement by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full calendar months elapsed since the Grant Date and the denominator of which is 36, (ii) fifty percent (50%) of the total General Shares granted under this Agreement which do not become vested in accordance with clause (i) of this Section 3(b).
(b)
                                
plus
 
Nontransferability of Grant
4.
                                      
 
Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Plan, no unvested Restricted Stock shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged, or hypothecated in any way or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Prior to the vesting of any Restricted Stock, no transfer of the Participant's rights with respect to such Restricted Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted.  Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such Restricted Stock, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.
Dividend and Distribution Rights
5.
                                      
 
The Committee in its discretion may require any dividends or distribution paid on the Restricted Stock be held in escrow until all restrictions on such Restricted Stock have lapsed.
 
Stock; Adjustment Upon Certain Events.
6.
                                      
 
Stock to be issued under this Agreement shall be made available, at the discretion of the Board, either from authorized but unissued Stock, from issued Stock reacquired by the Company or from Stock purchased by the Company on the open market specifically for this purpose.
(a)
                                 
 
The existence of this Agreement and the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company or any affiliate, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Stock, the authorization or issuance of additional shares of Stock, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any affiliate or sale or transfer of all or part of the assets or business of the Company or any affiliate, or any other corporate act or proceeding.
(b)
                                
 
Determinations
7.
                                      
 
Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement by the Committee or the Board in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes and upon all persons, including, without limitation, the Participant and the Company, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and other successors in interest.
 
Other Conditions
8.
                                      
 
The transfer of any shares of Restricted Stock shall be effective only at such time as counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares of Restricted Stock are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange on which Stock is traded.
 
Notification of Election Under Section 83(b) of the Code
9.
                                      
 
If the Participant shall, in connection with the grant of Restricted Stock under this Agreement, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (, an election to include in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within 10 days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service.
i.e.
 
Withholding Taxes
10.
                                
 
The Participant shall be liable for any and all U.S. federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of Restricted Stock.  When the
Restricted Stock vests, the Participant shall surrender to the Company a sufficient number of whole shares of Stock as necessary to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting.  The Company will provide the Participant with a cash refund for any fraction of surrendered shares of Stock not necessary for required withholding taxes and social security contributions.  Instead of requiring the Participant to surrender shares as described above, the Company may, in its discretion, (a) require the Participant to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting, or (b) deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations.
 
In lieu of surrendering shares of Stock to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions, the Participant may, by providing notice to the Company within 30 days of the Grant Date (a) elect to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, or (b) request the Company to deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, which request the Committee may choose to honor in its sole discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant makes an election under Section 9 above, the Participant shall remit to the Company in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy any withholding obligations at the time the notice described in Section 9 is delivered to the Company.
 
Distribution of Restricted Stock
11.
                                
 
Upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the restrictions of Sections 2 or 3 (as the case may be) and Section 4 shall lapse with respect to such vested Restricted Stock.  Reasonably promptly after any Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant a certificate evidencing such Stock.
 
Miscellaneous
12.
                                
 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal legal representatives, successors, trustees, administrators, distributees, devisees and legatees.  The Company shall assign to, and require, any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree in writing to perform this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may not be assigned by the Participant.
(a)
                                 
 
No modification or waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the party against whom it is sought to be enforced.
(b)
                                
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
The failure of any party hereto at any time to require performance by another party of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the right of such party to require
(d)
                                
performance of that provision, and any waiver by any party of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding breach of such provision, a waiver of the provision itself, or a waiver of any right under this Agreement.
 
The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall in no way restrict or modify any of the terms or provisions hereof.
(e)
                                 
 
The Company shall pay all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection with this Agreement and will from time to time use its reasonable efforts to comply with all laws and regulations which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, are applicable thereto.
(f)
                                   
 
All notices, consents, requests, approvals, instructions and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and validly given or made when delivered, or on the second succeeding business day after being mailed by registered or certified mail, whichever is earlier, to the persons entitled or required to receive the same, at the addresses set forth at the heading of this Agreement or to such other address as either party may designate by like notice.  Notices to the Company shall be addressed to its principal office, attention of the Company's General Counsel.
(g)
                                
 
The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the matters described herein and supercede all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
(h)
                                
 
This Agreement shall be governed and construed and the legal relationships of the parties determined in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(i)
                                    
 
The Company represents and warrants that it is duly authorized by its Board and/or the Committee (and by any other person or body whose authorization is required) to enter into this Agreement, that there is no agreement or other legal restriction which would prevent it from entering into, and carrying out its obligations under, this Agreement, and that the officer signing this Agreement is duly authorized and empowered to sign this Agreement on behalf of the Company.
(j)
                                    
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 

 
Exhibit 10.88
 
PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 1999 OMNIBUS PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT ("Agreement") made as of the 1st day of February 2005, by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal United States office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the "Company"), and Robert J. Mylod, Jr. (the "Participant").
 
Pursuant to terms of the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized this Agreement.  The Participant has been granted on February 12005 (the "Grant Date"), subject to execution of this Agreement, the number of restricted shares of Company Stock (the "Restricted Stock") set forth below.  Unless otherwise indicated, any capitalized term used herein, but not defined herein, shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan.
,
 
The Grant
1.
                                      
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Participant is granted twenty seven thousand (27,000) shares of Restricted Stock.
(a)
                                 
 
Subject to Section 2 hereof, nine thousand (9,000) shares of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement (the "Consideration Shares") shall vest on February 28, 2006.  For avoidance of doubt, there shall be no proportionate or partial vesting of Consideration Shares prior to February 28, 2006.  All other shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement which are not Consideration Shares shall be referred to as "General Shares".
(b)
                                
 
Subject to Section 3 hereof, all of the General Shares shall vest on February 28, 2008.
(c)
                                 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "Continuous Service" shall mean the Participant's service with the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate as an employee is not interrupted or terminated.
(d)
                                
 
Restrictions On Consideration Shares
2.
                                      
 
If, prior to February 28, 2006, the Participant in any way fails to comply with the terms and conditions of Addendum A, all Consideration Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
 
If the Participant has a termination of Continuous Service as a result of the Participant's death prior to February 28, 2006, all Consideration Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(b)
                                
In the event of a Change in Control occurring prior to February 28, 2006, the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares, if  (i) the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date which is the earlier of February 28, 2006 or six (6) months after the effective date of the Change in Control.  In the event that the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated prior to February 28, 2006 (other than for Cause) by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares. The determination of whether the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control shall be made by the Company, in its sole discretion.  If there is a Change in Control prior to February 28, 2006 and the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company during the period beginning on the effective date of such Change in Control and ending on the earlier of February 28, 2006 or the date which is six (6) months after the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all Consideration Shares.
(c)
                                 
 
Restrictions on General Shares
3.
                                      
 
Subject to Sections 3(b) and 3(c) below, upon the Participant's termination of Continuous Service, the unvested portion of the General Shares shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
(a)
                                 
 
If the Participant has a termination of Continuous Service as the result of a "Termination without Cause" or a "Termination for Good Reason" (as those terms are defined under the employment agreement executed by and between the Participant and the Company dated November 20, 2000 and amended on June 15, 2001), the Participant shall be fully vested in (i) the number of General Shares determined by multiplying the total number of General Shares granted under this Agreement by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full calendar months elapsed since the Grant Date and the denominator of which is 36, (ii) fifty percent (50%) of the total General Shares granted under this Agreement which do not become vested in accordance with clause (i) of this Section 3(b).
(b)
                                
plus
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the Participant shall be fully vested in all General Shares, if  (i) the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the Participant remains in Continuous Service through the date which is six (6) months after the effective date of the Change in Control.  In the event that the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated (other than for Cause) by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control or within six (6) months after the effective date of a Change in Control, then the Participant shall be fully vested in all General Shares.  The determination of whether the Participant's Continuous Service is terminated by the Company in anticipation of a Change in Control shall be made by the Company, in its sole discretion.
(c)
                                 
 
Definition of Change in Control
4.
                                      
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
(a)
                                 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
(i)
                                    
 
individuals who, on the Grant Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Grant Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; provided, further, that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
(ii)
                                 
 
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "Reorganization") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a "Sale"), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the "Surviving Entity"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the "Parent Entity"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the
(iii)
                              
Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
 
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)
                             
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; provided, however, that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
 
For the purposes of Section 4(a), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(b)
                                
 
"Affiliate" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Exchange Act");
(i)
                                    
 
"Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
(ii)
                                 
 
"Person" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of Stock or (5) the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant, or any entity controlled by the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant; provided the Participant is an executive officer, director or more than 10% owner of Stock.
(iii)
                              
Nontransferability of Grant
5.
                                      
 
Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Plan, no unvested Restricted Stock shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged, or hypothecated in any way or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Prior to the vesting of any Restricted Stock, no transfer of the Participant's rights with respect to such Restricted Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted.  Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such Restricted Stock, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.
 
Dividend and Distribution Rights
6.
                                      
 
The Committee in its discretion may require any dividends or distribution paid on the Restricted Stock be held in escrow until all restrictions on such Restricted Stock have lapsed.
 
Stock; Adjustment Upon Certain Events.
7.
                                      
 
Stock to be issued under this Agreement shall be made available, at the discretion of the Board, either from authorized but unissued Stock, from issued Stock reacquired by the Company or from Stock purchased by the Company on the open market specifically for this purpose.
(a)
                                 
 
The existence of this Agreement and the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company or any affiliate, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Stock, the authorization or issuance of additional shares of Stock, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any affiliate or sale or transfer of all or part of the assets or business of the Company or any affiliate, or any other corporate act or proceeding.
(b)
                                
 
Determinations
8.
                                      
 
Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement by the Committee or the Board in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes and upon all persons, including, without limitation, the Participant and the Company, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and other successors in interest.
 
Other Conditions
9.
                                      
 
The transfer of any shares of Restricted Stock shall be effective only at such time as counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares of Restricted Stock are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange on which Stock is traded.
 
Notification of Election Under Section 83(b) of the Code
10.
                                
 
If the Participant shall, in connection with the grant of Restricted Stock under this Agreement, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (, an election to include in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b)
i.e.
of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within 10 days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service.
 
Withholding Taxes
11.
                                
 
The Participant shall be liable for any and all U.S. federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of Restricted Stock.  When the Restricted Stock vests, the Participant shall surrender to the Company a sufficient number of whole shares of Stock as necessary to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting.  The Company will provide the Participant with a cash refund for any fraction of surrendered shares of Stock not necessary for required withholding taxes and social security contributions.  Instead of requiring the Participant to surrender shares as described above, the Company may, in its discretion, (a) require the Participant to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting, or (b) deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations.
 
In lieu of surrendering shares of Stock to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions, the Participant may, by providing notice to the Company within 30 days of the Grant Date (a) elect to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, or (b) request the Company to deduct from his regular salary payroll cash, on a payroll date following the date on which the Restricted Stock vests, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such obligations, which request the Committee may choose to honor in its sole discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant makes an election under Section 10 above, the Participant shall remit to the Company in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy any withholding obligations at the time the notice described in Section 10 is delivered to the Company.
 
Distribution of Restricted Stock
12.
                                
 
Upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the restrictions of Sections 2 or 3 (as the case may be) and Section 5 shall lapse with respect to such vested Restricted Stock.  Reasonably promptly after any Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant a certificate evidencing such Stock.
 
Miscellaneous
13.
                                
 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal legal representatives, successors, trustees, administrators, distributees, devisees and legatees.  The Company shall assign to, and require, any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree in writing to perform this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may not be assigned by the Participant.
(a)
                                 
No modification or waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the party against whom it is sought to be enforced.
(b)
                                
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
The failure of any party hereto at any time to require performance by another party of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the right of such party to require performance of that provision, and any waiver by any party of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding breach of such provision, a waiver of the provision itself, or a waiver of any right under this Agreement.
(d)
                                
 
The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall in no way restrict or modify any of the terms or provisions hereof.
(e)
                                 
 
The Company shall pay all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection with this Agreement and will from time to time use its reasonable efforts to comply with all laws and regulations which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, are applicable thereto.
(f)
                                   
 
All notices, consents, requests, approvals, instructions and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and validly given or made when delivered, or on the second succeeding business day after being mailed by registered or certified mail, whichever is earlier, to the persons entitled or required to receive the same, at the addresses set forth at the heading of this Agreement or to such other address as either party may designate by like notice.  Notices to the Company shall be addressed to its principal office, attention of the Company's General Counsel.
(g)
                                
 
The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the matters described herein and supercede all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
(h)
                                
 
This Agreement shall be governed and construed and the legal relationships of the parties determined in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(i)
                                    
 
The Company represents and warrants that it is duly authorized by its Board and/or the Committee (and by any other person or body whose authorization is required) to enter into this Agreement, that there is no agreement or other legal restriction which would prevent it from entering into, and carrying out its obligations under, this Agreement, and that the officer signing this Agreement is duly authorized and empowered to sign this Agreement on behalf of the Company.
(j)
                                    
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
This Noncompetition, Nonsolicitation and Nondisclosure Agreement (the "") is dated February 1, 2005 by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (""), andRobert J. Mylod, Jr. ("").
Agreement
Company
Executive
 
The parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
 
1.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that the Company has expended and shall continue to expend substantial amounts of time, money and effort to develop business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill and build an effective organization.  The Executive acknowledges that the Executive is and shall become familiar with the Company's Confidential Information (as defined below), including trade secrets, and that the Executive's services are of special, unique and extraordinary value to the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates (as defined below).  The Executive acknowledges that the Company has a legitimate business interest and right in protecting its Confidential Information, business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill, and that the Company would be seriously and irreparably damaged by the disclosure of Confidential Information and the loss or deterioration of its business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill.  For purposes of this Agreement, "" means, with respect to any specified person or entity, any other person or entity that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with, such specified person or entity; and "" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "" and ""), as used with respect to any person or entity, means the direct or indirect possession of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such person or entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
(a)
                                 
Affiliate
Control
Controlled by
under common Control with
 
The Executive acknowledges (i) that the business of the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates will be global in scope and without geographical limitation and (ii) notwithstanding the jurisdiction of formation or principal office of the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates, or any of their respective executives or employees (including, without limitation, the Executive), it is expected that the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates will have business activities and have valuable business relationships within its industry throughout the world.  In addition, the Executive agrees and acknowledges that the potential harm to the Company of the non-enforcement of Section 2, 3, 4 or 5 outweighs any potential harm to the Executive of its enforcement by injunction or otherwise.
(b)
                                
 
The Executive acknowledges that he has carefully read this Agreement and has given careful consideration to the restraints imposed upon the Executive by this Agreement, and is in full accord as to their necessity for the reasonable and proper protection of the Confidential Information, business strategies, employee and customer relationships and goodwill of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates now existing or to be developed in the future.  The Executive expressly acknowledges and agrees that each and every restraint imposed by this Agreement is reasonable with respect to subject matter, time period and geographical area.  The Executive further acknowledges that although the Executive's compliance with the covenants
(c)
                                 
contained in Sections 2, 3 and 4 may prevent the Executive from earning a livelihood in a business similar to the business of the Company, the Executive's experience and capabilities are such that the Executive has other opportunities to earn a livelihood and adequate means of support for the Executive and the Executive's dependents.
 
2.
NONCOMPETITION AND NONSOLICITATION
                                     
 
The Executive agrees that the Executive shall not, while an employee of the Company, and for the duration of the Restriction Period (as defined below), directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Company:
(a)
                                 
 
(A)engage in any activities, in any capacity, for or on behalf of or invest in any of the following companies or their successors (the ""):  (i) any travel businesses of InterActive Corporation, provided that the restriction in this clause (i)(A)(i) shall cease to apply upon the completion of the spin-off of Expedia from InterActive Corporation; (ii) Expedia, Hotels.com & Hotwire; (iii) Sabre Group; (iv) Lastminute.com plc; (v) the following companies or divisions owned or controlled by Cendant's Travel Distribution Services (a subsidiary of Cendant Corporation):  Orbitz, CheapTickets, Lodging.com, the Neat Group and Galileo; (vi) the following on-line travel aggregators: SideStep, Inc. (owner and operator of the website SideStep.com), Mobissimo, Inc. (owner and operator of the website Mobissimo.com), Cheapflights Limited (owner and operator of the website Cheapflights.com), Farechase, Kayak.com, or any substantially similar on-line travel search business; and (vii) on-line travel search businesses of Yahoo!, MSN, AOL or Google;
(i)
                                    
                             
Competitive Activities
 
solicit or attempt to solicit any customer or client or actively sought prospective customer or client of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates, with respect to the businesses actively operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates (it being intended that businesses owned but not operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates, such as, as of the date hereof, the Company's mortgage business, are not to be covered by this clause (B)), to purchase any travel related goods or services of the type sold by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates from anyone other than the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; , that the general advertisement for goods or services, other than on behalf of an entity identified in Section 2(a)(i)(A)(i) through (vii) above, shall not violate the terms of this Section 2(a)(i)(B) or
(B)
                               
provided, however
 
assist any person or entity in any way to do, or attempt to do, anything prohibited by (A) or (B) above; or
(C)
                               
 
(A)solicit, recruit or hire any employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates or any persons who, within one year of such solicitation, recruitment or hire, have worked for the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates;
(ii)
                                 
                             
 
solicit or encourage any employee of Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates to leave the services of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; and
(B)
                               
 
intentionally interfere with the relationship of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates with any person who or which is employed by or otherwise
(C)
                               
engaged to perform services for the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Affiliates; provided, that neither (1) the general advertisement for employees or the general solicitation of employees by a recruiter or (2) the Executive's being named as an employment reference for a current or former employee of the Company and responding to ordinary course inquiries made of the Executive by prospective employers of such employee in connection with such reference, shall be deemed a violation of this clause (ii).
 
The "" means the one-year period following the cessation or termination of the Executive's employment with the Company for any reason.  The Restriction Period shall be tolled during (and shall be deemed automatically extended by) any period in which the Executive is in violation of the provisions of this Section 2.
Restriction Period
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the foregoing covenant will not be deemed breached as a result of (i) the Executive's passive ownership of less than an aggregate of 5% of any class of securities of a person or entity engaged, directly or indirectly, in Competitive Activities; , , that such stock is listed on a national securities exchange or is quoted on the National Market System of NASDAQ; or (ii) the Executive having an ownership interest in any of the companies or businesses listed or described in Section 2(a)(i)(A)(ii) through (vii) provided that the services performed by the Executive in the course of such activities are not in any way connected with the activities of such companies or businesses.
(b)
                                
provided
however
 
If a final and non-appealable judicial determination is made that any of the provisions of this Section 2 constitutes an unreasonable or otherwise unenforceable restriction against the Executive, the provisions of this Section 2 will not be rendered void but will be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to remain in force and effect for the longest period and largest geographic area that would not constitute such an unreasonable or unenforceable restriction.  Moreover, notwithstanding the fact that any provision of this Section 2 is determined not to be specifically enforceable, the Company will nevertheless be entitled to recover monetary damages as a result of the Executive's breach of such provision.
(c)
                                 
 
3.
NONDISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that the Confidential Information obtained by the Executive while employed by the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates is the property of the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates, as applicable.  Therefore, the Executive agrees that the Executive shall not disclose to any unauthorized person or entity or use for the Executive's own purposes any Confidential Information without the prior written consent of the Company, unless and to the extent that the aforementioned matters (i) become generally known to and available for use by the public other than as a result of the Executive's acts or omissions in violation of this Agreement or (ii) were within the Executive's possession prior to its being obtained by the Executive in the course of the Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates; , , that if the Executive receives a request to disclose Confidential Information pursuant to a deposition, interrogation, request for information or documents in legal proceedings, subpoena, civil investigative demand, governmental or regulatory process or similar process, (A) the Executive shall promptly notify in writing the Company, and consult with and assist the Company in seeking a protective order or
(a)
                                 
provided
however
request for other appropriate remedy, (B) in the event that such protective order or remedy is not obtained, or if the Company waive compliance with the terms hereof, the Executive shall disclose only that portion of the Confidential Information which, in the written opinion of the Executive's legal counsel, is legally required to be disclosed and shall exercise reasonable best efforts to assure that confidential treatment shall be accorded to such Confidential Information by the receiving person or entity and (C) the Company shall be given an opportunity to review the Confidential Information prior to disclosure thereof.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, "" means information, observations and data concerning the business or affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates, including, without limitation, all business information (whether or not in written form) which relates to the Company, its subsidiaries or Affiliates, or their customers, suppliers or contractors or any other third parties in respect of which the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates has a business relationship or owes a duty of confidentiality, or their respective businesses or products, and which is not known to the public generally other than as a result of the Executive's breach of this Agreement, including but not limited to:  technical information or reports; trade secrets; unwritten knowledge and "know-how"; operating instructions; training manuals; customer lists; customer buying records and habits; product sales records and documents, and product development, marketing and sales strategies; market surveys; marketing plans; profitability analyses; product cost; long-range plans; information relating to pricing, competitive strategies and new product development; information relating to any forms of compensation or other personnel-related information; contracts; and supplier lists.  Confidential Information will not include such information known to the Executive prior to the Executive's involvement with the Company or its subsidiaries or Affiliates or information rightfully obtained from a third party (other than pursuant to a breach by the Executive of this Agreement).  Without limiting the foregoing, the Executive agrees to keep confidential the existence of, and any information concerning, any dispute between the Executive and the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates, except that the Executive may disclose information concerning such dispute to the court that is considering such dispute or to the Executive's legal counsel (provided that such counsel agrees not to disclose any such information other than as necessary to the prosecution or defense of such dispute).
(b)
                                
Confidential Information
 
Except as expressly set forth otherwise in this Agreement, the Executive agrees that the Executive shall not disclose the terms of this Agreement, except to the Executive's immediate family and the Executive's financial and legal advisors, or as may be required by law or ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.  The Executive further agrees that any disclosure to the Executive's financial and legal advisors will only be made after such advisors acknowledge and agree to maintain the confidentiality of this Agreement and its terms.
(c)
                                 
 
The Executive further agrees that the Executive will not improperly use or disclose any confidential information or trade secrets, if any, of any former employers or any other person or entity to whom the Executive has an obligation of confidentiality, and will not bring onto the premises of the Company, its subsidiaries or Affiliates any unpublished documents or any property belonging to any former employer or any other person or entity to whom the Executive has an obligation of confidentiality unless consented to in writing by the former employer or person or entity.
(d)
                                
4.
RETURN OF PROPERTY
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that all notes, memoranda, specifications, devices, formulas, records, files, lists, drawings, documents, models, equipment, property, computer, software or intellectual property relating to the businesses of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates, in whatever form (including electronic), and all copies thereof, that are received or created by the Executive while an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates (including but not limited to Confidential Information) are and shall remain the property of the Company and its subsidiaries and Affiliates, and the Executive shall immediately return such property to the Company upon the termination of the Executive's employment and, in any event, at the Company's request.  The Executive further agrees that any property situated on the premises of, and owned by, the Company or its subsidiaries and Affiliates, including disks and other storage media, filing cabinets or other work areas, is subject to inspection by Company's personnel at any time with or without notice.
 
5.
NONDISPARAGEMENT
                                     
 
While an employee of the Company, and for the one-year period following cessation or the termination of the Executive's employment with the Company for any reason, neither Executive nor the Company shall publicly or with the intent to become public make any statements, written or oral, which disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of, in the Executive's case, the Company formally or, its directors or senior officers or, in the Company's case, the Executive.
 
6.
NOTIFICATION OF SUBSEQUENT EMPLOYER
                                     
 
The Executive hereby agrees that prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity during any period during which the Executive remains subject to any of the covenants set forth in Section 2, the Executive shall provide such prospective employer with written notice of such provisions of this Agreement, with a copy of such notice delivered simultaneously to the Company.
 
7.
REMEDIES AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF
                                     
 
The Executive acknowledges that a violation by the Executive of any of the covenants contained in Section 2, 3, 4 or 5 would cause irreparable damage to the Company in an amount that would be material but not readily ascertainable, and that any remedy at law (including the payment of damages) would be inadequate.  Accordingly, the Executive agrees that, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall be entitled (without the necessity of showing economic loss or other actual damage) to injunctive relief (including temporary restraining orders, preliminary injunctions and/or permanent injunctions) in any court of competent jurisdiction for any actual or threatened breach of any of the covenants set forth in Section 2, 3, 4 or 5 in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies it may have.  The preceding sentence shall not be construed as a waiver of the rights that the Company may have for damages under this Agreement or otherwise, and all of the Company's rights shall be unrestricted.
   In consideration for the Executive's covenants herein, the Company has granted to the Executive the Consideration Shares, as defined in the Restricted Stock Agreement by and between the Company and the Executive dated February 1, 2005.
8.
CONSIDERATION.
                                     
 
9.
MISCELLANEOUS
                                     
 
.  All notices, consents, waivers, and other communications under this Agreement must be in writing and will be deemed given to a party when (i) delivered to the appropriate address by hand or by nationally recognized overnight courier service (costs prepaid, with written confirmation of receipt); (ii) sent by facsimile with written confirmation of transmission by the transmitting equipment, provided that a copy is sent by certified mail, return receipt requested; or (iii) received or rejected by the addressee, if sent by certified mail, return receipt requested; in each case to the following addresses or facsimile numbers and marked to the attention of the individual (by name or title) designated below (or to such other address, facsimile number, or individual as a party may designate by notice to the other parties):
(a)
                                 
Notices
 
if to the Company, to:
(i)
                                    
 
priceline.com Incorporated
800 Connecticut Avenue
Norwalk, CT  06854
Attention:  Peter J. Millones, Executive President and General
Counsel
fax:  203-299-8915
 
if to Executive, to Executive's address on the books and records of the Company from time to time
(ii)
                                 
 
or such other addresses as the parties may have furnished to each other pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
 
.  This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements between the parties with respect to its subject matter, and constitutes a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter. This Agreement may not be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified except by a written agreement executed by the parties.
(b)
                                
Entire Agreement and Modification
 
.  In this Agreement, the word "including" indicates examples of a foregoing general statement and not a limitation on that general statement.  No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted for or against any party because that party or its legal representative drafted the provision.
(c)
Construction
                                 
 
.  The Company may assign this Agreement or any of its rights and duties hereunder, without Executive's consent, to any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or any person or entity which acquires all or substantially all of the assets or business of the Company or any of the Company's divisions.  This Agreement is personal to Executive and may not be assigned by Executive.  Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement will apply to,
(d)
                                
Assignments
be binding in all respects upon, and inure to the benefit of Executive's heirs, executors, administrators and permitted assigned and the Company's successors and permitted assigns.
 
.  The parties' rights hereunder are cumulative and not alternative.  Neither the failure nor any delay by any party in exercising any right, power, or privilege hereunder will operate as a waiver of such right, power, or privilege, and no single or partial exercise of any such right, power, or privilege will preclude any other or further exercise of such right, power, or privilege or the exercise of any other right, power, or privilege.  To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law:  (i) no claim or right arising out of this Agreement can be discharged by a party, in whole or in part, by a waiver or renunciation of the claim or right unless in writing signed by the other party; (ii) no waiver that may be given by a party will be applicable except in the specific instance for which it is given; and (iii) no notice to or demand on one party will be deemed to be a waiver of any obligation of such party or of the right of the party giving such notice or demand to take further action without notice or demand as provided herein.  The Executive will not assert that the Company's failure or refusal to enforce or delay in enforcing against any of its other employees or former employees any agreement containing obligations identical or similar to those contained in this Agreement constitutes a waiver of the Company's rights hereunder.
(e)
                                 
Waiver
 
.  This Agreement will be governed by and construed under the laws of Connecticut without regard to conflicts of laws principles that would require the application of any other law.  Any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement may be brought in the courts of the State of Connecticut, County of Fairfield, or, if it has or can acquire jurisdiction, in the United States District Court for Connecticut.  Each of the parties irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection it may now or hereafter have to venue or convenience of forum.  Process in any action or proceeding referred to in the preceding sentence may be served on any party anywhere in the world.
(g)
                                
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Service of Process
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts.
(h)
                                
Counterparts
 
The parties have executed this Agreement on the date first written above.
 
 


