FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20050630074627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
Item 7.01.              Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On June 30, 2005, Priceline.com Incorporated ("priceline.com") announced that it had entered into a multi-service travel marketing agreement with Orbitz, Inc.  A copy of the press release is attached as exhibit 99.1.  Priceline.com does not expect the agreement to have a material impact on its 2005 financial results.
 
Item 9.01.              Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  June 30, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
ORBITZ, PRICELINE.COM SIGN TRAVEL MARKETING AGREEMENT
 
 Orbitz and priceline.com (NASDAQ: PCLN) announced today a multi-service travel marketing agreement.  Under the terms of the agreement, priceline.com will be Orbitz's exclusive partner for opaque travel services effective January 1, 2006.  The agreement also restructures the hotel marketing contract between Orbitz and priceline.com's Travelweb hotel business unit to allow Orbitz to establish direct relationships with hotel chains and properties.  Terms of the agreement were not disclosed.  Orbitz is owned by Cendant's Travel Distribution Services division (NYSE: CD).
CHICAGO, Ill., and NORWALK, Conn., June 30, 2005
 
"This agreement aligns two of travel's best-known brands in their respective fields," said Mitch Truwit, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orbitz.  "Our opaque partnership with priceline.com will give Orbitz customers access to a broad inventory of their Name Your Own Price travel services, so customers who are flexible in their travel plans can maximize savings.  By directly negotiating with hotels, such as Marriott, Starwood, Hyatt, Hilton, and Intercontinental, Orbitz will have the flexibility to provide our customers with even more hotel options."
 
"We're pleased to have Orbitz as a marketing partner," said Jeffery H. Boyd, priceline.com's President and CEO.  "Orbitz is one of the nation's fastest growing retail travel services and we believe that the promotion of priceline.com by Orbitz and its affiliated companies using the Orbitz platform, Cheap Tickets and Lodging.com, should enable priceline.com to reach an even larger base of potential customers for our opaque hotel rooms, rental cars, airline tickets and vacation packages."
 
About Orbitz
 
Orbitz is a leading online travel company that enables travelers to search for and purchase a broad array of travel products, including airline tickets, lodging, rental cars, cruises and vacation packages.  Since launching its website www.orbitz.com to the general public in June 2001, Orbitz has become the third largest online travel site based on gross travel bookings.  On Orbitz, consumers can search more than 455 airlines, tens of thousands of lodging properties worldwide and 16 car rental companies.  Orbitz was acquired by Cendant's Travel Distribution Services division in November 2004 and is part of the Consumer Travel Americas group.
 
About Priceline.com
 
Priceline.com www.priceline.com is a travel service that offers leisure airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, vacation packages and cruises.  Priceline.com recently expanded its services, so customers now have a choice: they can pick from a broad selection of published flights, hotels, rental cars and packages at published prices or, for deeper savings, they can use priceline.com's Name Your Own Price service for their travel needs.  Priceline.com also has a personal finance service that offers home mortgages, refinancing and home equity loans through an independent licensee.
 
Priceline.com operates one of Europe's fastest growing hotel reservation services through Activehotels.com, Activereservations.com and priceline.co.uk.  The company also operates the following travel web sites:  Travelweb.com, Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com and Breezenet.com.  Priceline.com licenses its business model to independent licensees, including priceline mortgage and certain international licensees.
 


