FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20050603164806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
Item 1.01.        Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On June 2, 2005, priceline.com Incorporated entered into an indemnification agreement with Marshall Loeb, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.2, which outlines the Company's obligations under its amended and restated certificate of incorporation to indemnify Mr. Loeb.
 
Item 7.01.        Regulation FD Disclosure
 
At priceline.com's Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 1, 2005, the stockholders of priceline.com elected nine directors, listed below, and ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm for priceline.com for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2005.  Priceline.com's proxy statement describes in more detail the matters presented at the Annual Meeting.
 
Jeffery H. Boyd
Ralph M. Bahna
Howard W. Barker, Jr.
Jeffrey E. Epstein
James M. Guyette
Dominic Kai Ming Lai
Nancy B. Peretsman
Craig W. Rydin
Ian F. Wade
 
Item 9.01.        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  June 3, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
This Stock Option Agreement (this "Agreement") is executed and delivered as of the Option Grant Date by and between priceline.com Incorporated (the "Company") and the Optionee.  The Optionee and the Company hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
            
The Company, pursuant to the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan ("Plan"), which is incorporated herein by reference, and subject to the terms and conditions thereof, hereby grants to the Optionee an option to purchase the Optioned Shares at the Exercise Price Per Share indicated above.  Unless otherwise determined under the Plan, the Option shall become exerciseable in accordance with the schedule set forth above.
 
2.
            
The Option granted hereby shall be treated as a Non-Qualified stock option under the Internal Revenue Code.
 
3.
            
The Option granted hereby shall terminate, subject to the provisions of the Plan, no later than at the close of business on the Termination Date.  The termination of Optionee's role as Chairperson of the Company's Board of Directors shall not effect the vesting of the Option.
 
4.
            
The Optionee shall comply with and be bound by all the terms and conditions contained in the Plan.
 
5.
            
The obligation of the Company to sell and deliver any stock under these Options is specifically subject to all provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, rules, regulations and governmental and stockholder approvals.
 
6.
            
Any notice by the Optionee to the Company hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly given only upon receipt thereof by the Company at its principal offices.  Any notice by the Company to the Optionee shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly given if mailed to the Optionee at the address last specified to the Company by the Optionee.
 
7.
            
The validity and construction of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to its principles of conflicts of law.
THIS AGREEMENT is made under and subject to the provisions of the Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time and all of the provisions of the Plan are, and all amendments hereafter made thereto will be upon their adoption by the Company, also provisions of this Agreement.  If there is a difference or conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, as amended from time to time, the provisions of the Plan, as amended, shall govern.  By signing this Agreement, the Optionee accepts and agrees to all of the foregoing terms and provisions and to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan, as amended from time to time, incorporated herein by reference and confirms that he or she has received a copy of the Plan as in effect on the date hereof.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized representative and the Optionee has hereunto set his hand as of the date set forth above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Marshall Loeb
31 Montrose Road
Scarsdale, NY  10583
 
Dear Marshall:
 
Under Delaware law, priceline.com Incorporated ("priceline.com") is permitted to provide broad indemnification protection for its current and former directors in appropriate circumstances.  Priceline.com will indemnify you, your heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law, with respect to any claims against you for any of your acts or omissions during your period of service as a director of priceline.com, in accordance with Paragraph Seventh of priceline.com's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  This means that priceline.com will indemnify you for the reasonable costs of separate legal counsel for you (should you choose to retain counsel) and also for other amounts you may be required to pay (such as fines or penalties or damages).
 
There are some limited circumstances under which Delaware law may not permit indemnification, and that may require you to repay amounts paid by priceline.com on your behalf.  Those circumstances include those set forth in Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and those set forth in Article Four of Paragraph Fifth of priceline.com's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  Under any of those circumstances, you undertake and promise to repay the amounts advanced under this indemnity.
 


