FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20060208170435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
 
 
Item 1.01.              Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
(a) .  On February 2, 2006, the priceline.com Incorporated ("" or the "") Board of Directors authorized the following changes to director compensation:
Director Compensation
priceline.com
Company
 
The annual grant of priceline.com stock options to non-employee directors was replaced with an annual grant of 2,000 shares of priceline.com restricted common stock, par value $0.008 per share.  The restricted stock will vest over a four year period; the vesting of the shares of restricted stock will accelerate if, among other things, the director is not re-nominated for election to the Board of Directors, the director retires after the age of 65 or becomes disabled, or if there is a "change in control" of priceline.com.  2,000 shares of restricted stock were issued to each non-employee director on February 2, 2006.
 - 
                 
 
The annual grant of stock options to the Chairperson of the Board of Directors was replaced with an annual grant of 2,000 shares of restricted stock.  2,000 shares of restricted stock were issued to the Chairperson of the priceline.com Board of Directors on February 2, 2006 for his service as Chairperson.
 - 
                 
 
The annual retainer paid to the Chairperson of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors was increased to $6,500 per year, effective January 1, 2006.
 - 
                 
 
(b) .  On February 2, 2006, priceline.com's Board of Directors adopted a 2006 cash bonus plan (the "") applicable to the Company's senior executives and most of the Company's employees, including certain employees of Priceline Europe.  The 2006 Bonus Plan establishes a potential bonus pool for the payment of year-end cash bonuses to senior executives and other employees based primarily on the Company's 2006 financial performance.
Priceline.com's 2006 Bonus Plan
2006 Bonus Plan
 
For U.S. employees, the 2006 Bonus Plan establishes "pro forma" net income per share targets; as priceline.com meets and/or exceeds those pre-established targets, an increasing percentage of the 2006 bonus pool will fund.  All U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2006 Bonus Plan.  The 2006 Bonus Plan provides that approximately twenty percent of the bonus pool will fund and will be available for allocation of bonus payments if the Compensation Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors determines, in its complete discretion, that, irrespective of the Company's attainment of the pre-established "pro forma" net income per share targets, certain non-financial goals were accomplished by the Company and/or individual employees during 2006.  The remaining approximately eighty percent of the 2006 Bonus Plan begins to fund only after priceline.com achieves a certain percentage year-over-year "pro forma" net income per share growth.  For certain employees of Priceline Europe, the 2006 Bonus Plan establishes EBITDA targets; as Priceline Europe meets and/or exceeds those pre-established targets, an increasing percentage of the 2006 bonus pool will fund and be available for allocation of bonus payments to certain employees of Priceline Europe.
Committee
 
Once the bonus pools fund, each participant will be eligible to receive a discretionary bonus based upon individually established performance goals.  In the case of the Company's Chief Executive Officer, the individual performance goals and target bonus amount were established by the Board of Directors and, in the case of the Company's "executive officers," the individual performance goals and target bonus amounts were established by the Chief Executive Officer and reviewed and approved by the Committee.  Actual bonus amounts  relative to target bonus amounts  may be adjusted (upward or downward) based
on the extent to which various performance goals are achieved.  The Committee intends for the calculation of "pro forma" net income per share that is used in the 2006 Bonus Plan to be substantially consistent with the calculation used by the Company in its quarterly and annual earnings announcements; however, the Committee has discretion to exclude or include certain items to the extent it deems it appropriate or fair.  Currently, "pro forma" net income per share excludes, among other things, the non-cash amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles, stock-based compensation expense, option payroll tax expense, and the payment of non-cash preferred stock dividends.  The calculation of "pro foma" net income per share also excludes the accounting impact of EITF Issue No. 04-08 ("").  The Committee may exclude from the calculation of "pro forma" net income per share other non-cash items that the Committee believes, in its complete discretion, to be "one time" or "non-recurring" in nature.  The Committee may change the goals, including, without limitation, the pre-established "pro forma" net income per share and/or EBITDA targets and objectives for the 2006 Bonus Plan at any time.
Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share
 
(c) .  On February 2, 2006, the priceline.com Board of Directors authorized the Company to issue "performance shares" to employees as part of the Company's 2006 compensation program.  The "performance shares" will be issued under the Company's 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended.
Performance Shares
 
multiplied by a fraction  the numerator of which will be priceline.com's average "pro forma" net income per share growth rate during the three year period and the denominator of which will be the average "adjusted" or "pro forma", as applicable, net income per share growth rate of the "peer" group during the same three year period.  The growth rate of the three company "peer" group will be determined based upon the publicly reported financial metric for each "peer" company that is most comparable to the Company's "pro forma" net income per share metric.  The number of performance shares to be issued to an employee and/or executive in 2009 will not be upwardly adjusted  relative to the Target  by more than 200%.  The Committee will have discretion to make adjustments to priceline.com's or the "peer" group's "adjusted" or "pro forma", as applicable, metrics to take into account events or items that distort comparisons between priceline.com and the "peer" group.  Performance shares will not be issued if priceline.com's average "pro forma" net income per share growth rate during the three year period is less than 75% of the "peer" group's.  The "performance shares" provide for accelerated vesting in the event of, among other things, a "change in control" (as defined in the performance share agreement) of priceline.com and/or termination of employment in certain circumstances.
On the grant date, which is currently anticipated to be in late February 2006, each employee and/or executive who is eligible to receive "performance shares" will receive a target number of shares of priceline.com common stock (the "") to be issued on or about the third anniversary of the date of grant dependant upon priceline.com's financial performance versus a group of three "peer" companies.  The actual number of "performance shares" to be delivered to the employee and/or executive in 2009  relative to the Target  will be adjusted (upward or downward, as the case may be) based on priceline.com's average "pro forma" net income per share growth rate relative to the "peer" group during each of the three calendar years in the period ended 2008.  In calculating the number of shares, if any, to issue in 2009, the Target will be
Target
 
(d) .  On February 8, 2006, the Company and Peter Millones, the Company's Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, executed an employment agreement, the material terms of which are summarized below.  The employment agreement replaces and supercedes Mr. Millones' prior employment agreement.
Employment Agreement
.  The agreement with Mr. Millones has an initial term of two years, which will automatically be extended for successive one-year terms unless the Company or Mr. Millones provide at least 90 days written notice that the term will not be so extended.  The agreement with Mr. Millones provides for a minimum salary of $275,000 per year, and that Mr. Millones will be eligible to participate at a level commensurate with his position in the Company's annual bonus and long-term compensation plans generally made available to the Company's senior executives, and to participate in all benefit plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally provided to comparable senior executives of the Company.
Term and Position
 
  In the event of a termination of Mr. Millones' employment by the Company without "Cause" (as described below) or by Mr. Millones for "Good Reason" (as described below), then Mr. Millones will be entitled to receive, among other things, in addition to his compensation accrued through the date of termination of employment, the following severance compensation and benefits:
Termination without "Cause" or for "Good Reason".
 
(1) two times his base salary and target bonus, if any, paid over a 12-month period following his termination of employment;
 
(2) if a bonus plan is in place, a pro-rata target annual bonus for the year in which termination of employment occurs; and
 
(3) continuation for one year following termination of employment of group health, life and disability insurance benefits as if Mr. Millones were an employee of the Company, provided that, if such termination is after a "Change in Control" (as the term is defined in the agreement with Mr. Millones) the period of benefit continuation will be twenty-four months.
 
The agreement with Mr. Millones provides that to the extent that any installment payments of severance would result in the imposition of the additional income tax pursuant to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Company and Mr. Millones will negotiate in good faith an alternative arrangement that will provide him with payments that are equivalent in value to the value of such payments but would not be subject to such additional income tax, provided that the Company may elect to pay Mr. Millones the discounted present value of such payments in a lump sum on the latest date permitted pursuant to guidance from the Internal Revenue Service that would avoid the imposition of such additional income tax.
 
  Subject to certain limitations, if severance remuneration payable under the agreement is held to constitute an "excess parachute payment" under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code and Mr. Millones becomes liable for any excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company will make an additional cash gross-up payment to him in an amount such that Mr. Millones will be in the same after-tax economic position as if such excise tax were not imposed.
Other.
 
The term "", as used in Mr. Millones' employment agreement, includes, among other things, (i) willful misconduct by such executive with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the willful refusal of such executive to attempt to follow the proper written direction of the Board of Directors, or, in Mr. Millones' case, a more senior officer of the Company, provided that the foregoing refusal shall not be "cause" if such executive in good faith believes that such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and promptly so notifies the Board of Directors or the more senior officer (whichever is applicable); (iii) substantial and continuing willful refusal by such executive
cause
to attempt to perform the duties required of him (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to such executive by the Board of Directors, or, in Mr. Millones' case, a more senior officer of the Company, which specifically identifies the manner in which it is believed that such executive has substantially and continually refused to attempt to perform his duties; or (iv) such executive being convicted of a felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation or as a result of vicarious liability).  A notice by the Company of a non-renewal of the employment agreement will be considered an involuntary termination of such executive without "cause".  A notification of a termination for "cause" from the Company to such executive must include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board of Directors at a meeting of the Board of Directors which was called for the purpose of considering such termination and which such executive and his representative had the right to attend and address the Board of Directors, finding that, in the good faith of the Board of Directors, such executive engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of "cause" above and specifying the particulars thereof in reasonable detail.
 
The term "", as used in Mr. Millones' employment agreement, includes, among other things, (i) any material diminution of such executive's positions, duties or responsibilities (except in each case in connection with the termination of such executive's employment for "cause" or disability or as a result of such executive's death, or temporarily as a result of such executive's illness or other absence), or, the assignment to such executive of duties or responsibilities that are inconsistent with such executive's then position; (ii) removal of, or the non-reelection of, such executive from the officer position with the Company specified in the employment agreement without election to a higher position or removal of such executive from any of his then officer position; (iii) a relocation of the Company's executive office in Connecticut  to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more than thirty-five (35) miles further from such executive's residence at the time of relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus plan, program or arrangement in which such executive is entitled to participate (the "Bonus Plans"), provided that any such Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company's discretion from time to time but shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if plans providing such executive with substantially similar benefits are not substituted ("Substitute Plans"), or (B) to continue such executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus as such executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material breach by the Company of any provision of the employment agreement; or (vi) failure of any successor to the Company to assume in a writing delivered to such executive upon the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company under the employment agreement.
good reason
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 10.7
PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 1999 OMNIBUS PLAN
RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT ("Agreement") effective as of the     day of             , by and between priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal United States office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the "Company"), and              (the "Participant").
 
W I T N E S S E T H:
 
Pursuant to terms of the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized this Agreement.  The Participant has been granted on              (the "Grant Date") the number of restricted shares of Company Stock (the "Restricted Stock") set forth below.  Unless otherwise indicated, any capitalized term used herein, but not defined herein, shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Plan.
 
1.             The Grant
 
(a)           Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Participant is granted        (      ) shares of Restricted Stock.
 
(b)           Subject to Sections 2 and 3 hereof, one-fourth (1/4) of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall vest on the first anniversary of the Grant Date and an additional one-fourth (1/4) of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall vest on each of the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the Grant Date if on each such vesting date, the Participant has been in Continuous Service through such date.  For avoidance of doubt, there shall be no proportionate or partial vesting in the periods prior to each vesting date and vesting shall occur only on the applicable vesting dates pursuant to this Section 1(b).  Upon satisfaction of the vesting requirements set forth in this Section 1(b), the restrictions on the vested Restricted Stock, as set forth in Sections 2 and 3 of this Agreement, shall lapse.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Continuous Service" shall mean the Participant's service as a director on the Board is not interrupted or terminated.
 
2.             Effect of Termination of Continuous Service
 
(a)           If the Participant's Continuous Service terminates for any reason other than the Participant's  (i) Disability, (ii) retirement after attaining age 65, or (iii) failure to be renominated for election to the Board, then the unvested portion of the Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall be immediately forfeited and canceled.
 
(b)           If the Participant's Continuous Service terminates as a result of the Participant's  (i) Disability, (ii) retirement after attaining age 65, or (iii) failure to be renominated for election to the Board, then all shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall be fully vested on the date the Participant's Continuous Service terminates.
3.             Effect of Change in Control
 
(a)           In the event of a Change in Control, all shares of Restricted Stock granted under this Agreement shall be fully vested on the effective date of the Change in Control if the Participant was in Continuous Service immediately prior to the Change in Control.
 
(b)           For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
 
(i)            any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
 
(ii)           individuals who, on the Grant Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Grant Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; provided, further, that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
 
(iii)          the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "Reorganization") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a "Sale"), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the "Surviving Entity"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the "Parent Entity"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which
such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
 
approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)          the stockholders of the Company
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; provided, however, that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
 
(c)           For the purposes of Section 3(b), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
(i)            "Affiliate" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "Exchange Act");
 
(ii)           "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
 
(iii)          "Person" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or
indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of Stock or (5) the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant, or any entity controlled by the Participant or any group of persons including the Participant; provided the Participant is an executive officer, director or more than 10% owner of Stock.
 
4.             Nontransferability of Grant
 
Except as otherwise provided herein or in the Plan, no unvested Restricted Stock shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged, or hypothecated in any way or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.  Prior to the vesting of any Restricted Stock, no transfer of the Participant's rights with respect to such Restricted Stock, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted.  Immediately upon any attempt to transfer such rights, such Restricted Stock, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be forfeited by the Participant.
 
5.             Dividend and Distribution Rights
 
The Committee in its discretion may require any dividends or distribution paid on the Restricted Stock be held in escrow until all restrictions on such Restricted Stock have lapsed.
 
6.             Stock; Adjustment Upon Certain Events
 
(a)           Stock to be issued under this Agreement shall be made available, at the discretion of the Board, either from authorized but unissued Stock, from issued Stock reacquired by the Company or from Stock purchased by the Company on the open market specifically for this purpose.
 
(b)           The existence of this Agreement and the Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Board or the stockholders of the Company to make or authorize any adjustment, recapitalization, reorganization or other change in the Company's capital structure or its business, any merger or consolidation of the Company or any affiliate, any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Stock, the authorization or issuance of additional shares of Stock, the dissolution or liquidation of the Company or any affiliate or sale or transfer of all or part of the assets or business of the Company or any affiliate, or any other corporate act or proceeding.
 
7.             Determinations
 
Each determination, interpretation or other action made or taken pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement by the Committee or the Board in good faith shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes and upon all persons, including, without limitation, the Participant and the Company, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, personal representatives and other successors in interest.
8.             Other Conditions
 
The transfer of any shares of Restricted Stock shall be effective only at such time as counsel to the Company shall have determined that the issuance and delivery of such shares of Restricted Stock are in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations of governmental authority and the requirements of any securities exchange on which Stock is traded.
 
9.             Notification of Election Under Section 83(b) of the Code
 
If the Participant shall, in connection with the grant of Restricted Stock under this Agreement, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code (, an election to include in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code), then the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within 10 days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service.
i.e.
 
10.           Withholding Taxes
 
The Participant shall be liable for any and all U.S. federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to the vesting of Restricted Stock.  When the Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall have the right to require the Participant to surrender to the Company a sufficient number of whole shares of Stock as necessary to cover all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting for which, if any, the Company has a withholding obligation; provided, the Company will provide the Participant with a cash refund for any fraction of surrendered shares of Stock not necessary for required withholding taxes and social security contributions.  The Company shall also have the right to instead require the Participant to remit to the Company on the date on which the Restricted Stock vests cash in an amount sufficient to satisfy all applicable required withholding taxes and social security contributions related to such vesting for which, if any, the Company has a withholding obligation.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant makes an election under Section 9 above, the Company shall have the right to require the Participant to remit to the Company in cash an amount sufficient to satisfy any withholding obligations the Company may have at the time the notice described in Section 9 is delivered to the Company.
 
11.           Distribution of Restricted Stock
 
Upon the vesting of any Restricted Stock pursuant to the terms hereof, the restrictions of Sections 2, 3 and 4 shall lapse with respect to such vested Restricted Stock.  Reasonably promptly after any Restricted Stock vests, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant a certificate evidencing such Stock.
 
12.           Miscellaneous
 
(a)           This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective heirs, personal legal representatives, successors, trustees, administrators, distributees, devisees and legatees.  The Company shall assign to, and require, any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to
all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree in writing to perform this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may not be assigned by the Participant.
 
(b)           No modification or waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the party against whom it is sought to be enforced.
 
(c)           This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement.
 
(d)           The failure of any party hereto at any time to require performance by another party of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the right of such party to require performance of that provision, and any waiver by any party of any breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any continuing or succeeding breach of such provision, a waiver of the provision itself, or a waiver of any right under this Agreement.
 
(e)           The headings of the sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall in no way restrict or modify any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
(f)            The Company shall pay all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by the Company in connection with this Agreement and will from time to time use its reasonable efforts to comply with all laws and regulations which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, are applicable thereto.
 
(g)           All notices, consents, requests, approvals, instructions and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and validly given or made when delivered, or on the second succeeding business day after being mailed by registered or certified mail, whichever is earlier, to the persons entitled or required to receive the same, at the addresses set forth at the heading of this Agreement or to such other address as either party may designate by like notice.  Notices to the Company shall be addressed to its principal office, attention of the Company's General Counsel.
 
(h)           The Plan and this Agreement constitute the entire Agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to the matters described herein and supercede all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral and written, between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
 
(i)            This Agreement shall be governed and construed and the legal relationships of the parties determined in accordance with the laws of the state of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
 
(j)            The Company represents and warrants that it is duly authorized by its Board and/or the Committee (and by any other person or body whose authorization is required) to enter into this Agreement, that there is no agreement or other legal restriction which would prevent it from entering into, and carrying out its obligations under, this Agreement, and that
the officer signing this Agreement is duly authorized and empowered to sign this Agreement on behalf of the Company.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 10.8
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, dated as of February 8, 2006 (the ""), by and between Priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, with its principal office at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854 (the ""), and Peter J. Millones ("").
Effective Date
Company
Executive
 
 
, the Company and Executive entered into an employment letter agreement dated February 9, 2001 (the "")
WHEREAS
Original Employment Arrangement
 
, the Company desires that Executive continue to be employed as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Company and Executive desire to replace and supersede the Original Employment Arrangement in its entirety and enter into this agreement (the "") providing for the terms of his employment by the Company.
WHEREAS
Agreement
 
, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
.  Except for earlier termination as provided in Section 7 hereof, Executive's employment under this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and end on the second anniversary of the Effective Date (the ""), provided that the Initial Employment Term shall be automatically extended for additional terms of successive one (1) year periods (each, an "") unless the Company or Executive gives written notice to the other at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the Initial Employment Term or then-current Additional Employment Term that the Executive's employment shall not be so extended.  The Initial Employment Term and each Additional Employment Term shall be referred to herein as the "."
.
1
                                      
Term of Employment
Initial Employment Term
Additional Employment Term
Employment Term
 
.  (a) Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company and Secretary of the Company's Board of Directors.   Executive shall also serve, if requested by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, as an executive officer and director of subsidiaries and a director of Affiliates of the Company and shall comply with the policy of the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "") with regard to retention or forfeiture of director's fees.
.
2
                                      
Positions
Compensation Committee
 
Executive shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall have such duties and authority, consistent with his then position, as shall be assigned to him from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company (the "") or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
(b)
                                
Board
 
During the Employment Term, Executive shall devote substantially all of his business time and efforts to the performance of his duties hereunder; , that Executive shall be allowed, to the extent that such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of his duties and responsibilities hereunder, to manage his personal financial and legal affairs and to serve on corporate, civic, charitable industry boards or committees.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive shall only serve on corporate boards of directors if approved in advance by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
(c)
                                 
provided, however
 
.  During the Employment Term, the Company shall pay Executive a base salary at the annual rate of not less than $275,000.  Base salary shall be payable in accordance with the usual payroll practices of the Company.  Executive's base salary shall be subject to annual review by the Board or the
.
3
                                      
Base Salary
Compensation Committee during the Employment Term and may be increased, but not decreased, from time to time by the Board or the Compensation Committee.  The base salary as determined as aforesaid from time to time shall constitute "" for purposes of this Agreement.
Base Salary
 
.  (a)  .  Executive shall be eligible to participate in any annual bonus plan the Company may implement at any time during Executive's Employment Term for senior executives at a level commensurate with his position.
.
4
                                      
Incentive Compensation
Bonus
 
.  For each fiscal year or portion thereof during the Employment Term, Executive shall be eligible to participate in any long-term incentive compensation plan generally made available to senior executives of the Company at a level commensurate with his position in accordance with and subject to the terms of such plan.
(b)
                                
Long Term Compensation
 
.  The Company may, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, award to the Executive such other bonuses and compensation as it deems appropriate and reasonable.
(c)
                                 
Other Compensation
 
.  (a)  During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to participate in all benefit plans and arrangements and fringe benefits and perquisite programs generally provided to comparable senior executives of the Company.
5.
                                      
Employee Benefits and Vacation
 
During the Employment Term, Executive shall be entitled to vacation each year in accordance with the Company's policies in effect from time to time, but in no event less than four (4) weeks paid vacation per calendar year.  The Executive shall also be entitled to such periods of sick leave as is customarily provided by the Company for its senior executive employees.
(b)
                                
 
.  The Company shall reimburse Executive for the travel, entertainment and other business expenses incurred by Executive in the performance of his duties hereunder, in accordance with the Company's policies as in effect from time to time.
6.
                                      
Business Expenses
 
.  (a)  The employment of Executive under this Agreement shall terminate upon the earliest to occur of any of the following events:
7.
                                      
Termination
 
the death of the Executive;
(i)
                                    
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company due to the Executive's Disability pursuant to Section 7(b) hereof;
(ii)
                                 
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Executive for Good Reason pursuant to Section 7(c) hereof;
(iii)
                              
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company without Cause;
(iv)
                             
 
the termination of employment by the Executive without Good Reason upon sixty (60) days prior written notice; or
(v)
                                
 
the termination of the Executive's employment by the Company for Cause pursuant to Section 7(e).
(vi)
                             
 
.  If by reason of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity, the Executive is unable to carry out his material duties pursuant to this Agreement for more than six (6) consecutive months, the Company may terminate Executive's employment for Disability.  Such termination shall be upon thirty (30) days written notice by a Notice of Disability Termination, at any time thereafter while Executive consecutively continues to be unable to carry out his duties as a result of the same or related physical or mental illness or incapacity.  A Termination for Disability hereunder shall not be effective if Executive returns to the full time performance of his material duties within such thirty (30) day period.
(b)
                                
Disability
.  A Termination for Good Reason means a termination by Executive by written notice given within ninety (90) days after the occurrence of the Good Reason event, unless such circumstances are fully corrected prior to the date of termination specified in the Notice of Termination for Good Reason (as defined in Section 7(d) hereof).  For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the occurrence or failure to cause the occurrence, as the case may be, without Executive's express written consent, of any of the following circumstances:  (i) any material diminution of Executive's positions, duties or responsibilities hereunder (except in each case in connection with the termination of Executive's employment for Cause or Disability or as a result of Executive's death, or temporarily as a result of Executive's illness or other absence), or, the assignment to Executive of duties or responsibilities that are inconsistent with Executive's then position; (ii) removal of, or the non-reelection of, the Executive from officer positions with the Company specified herein without election to a higher position or removal of the Executive from any of his then officer positions; (iii) a relocation of the Company's executive office in Connecticut  to a location more than thirty-five (35) miles from its current location or more than thirty-five (35) miles further from the Executive's residence at the time of relocation; (iv) a failure by the Company (A) to continue any bonus plan, program or arrangement in which Executive is entitled to participate (the ""), provided that any such Bonus Plans may be modified at the Company's discretion from time to time but shall be deemed terminated if (x) any such plan does not remain substantially in the form in effect prior to such modification and (y) if plans providing Executive with substantially similar benefits are not substituted therefor (""), or (B) to continue Executive as a participant in the Bonus Plans and Substitute Plans on at least the same basis as to potential amount of the bonus as Executive participated in prior to any change in such plans or awards, in accordance with the Bonus Plans and the Substitute Plans; (v) any material breach by the Company of any provision of this Agreement, including without limitation Section 12 hereof; or (vi) failure of any successor to the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by merger, acquisition, consolidation or otherwise) to assume in a writing delivered to Executive upon the assignee becoming such, the obligations of the Company hereunder.
(c)
                                 
Termination for Good Reason
Good Reason
Bonus Plans
Substitute Plans
 
.  A Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 7(c) relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for Termination for Good Reason.  The failure by Executive to set forth in the Notice of Termination for Good Reason any facts or circumstances which contribute to the showing of Good Reason shall not waive any right of Executive hereunder or preclude Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing his rights hereunder.  The Notice of Termination for Good Reason shall provide for a date of termination not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days after the date such Notice of Termination for Good Reason is given, provided that in the case of the events set forth in Sections 7(c)(i) or (ii) the date may be five (5) days after the giving of such notice.
(d)
                                
Notice of Termination for Good Reason
 
.  Subject to the notification provisions of Section 7(f) below, Executive's employment hereunder may be terminated by the Company for Cause.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Cause" shall be limited to (i) willful misconduct by Executive with regard to the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company; (ii) the willful refusal of Executive to attempt to follow the proper written direction of the Board or a more senior officer of the Company, provided that the foregoing refusal shall not be "Cause" if Executive in good faith believes that such direction is illegal, unethical or immoral and promptly so notifies the Board or the more senior officer (whichever is applicable); (iii) substantial and continuing willful refusal by the Executive to attempt to perform the duties required of him hereunder (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board or a more senior officer of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which it is believed that the Executive has substantially and continually refused to attempt to perform his duties hereunder; or (iv) the Executive being convicted of a felony (other than a felony involving a traffic violation or as a result of vicarious liability).  For purposes of this
(e)
                                 
Cause
paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on Executive's part shall be considered "willful" unless done or omitted to be done, by him not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.  A notice by the Company of a non-renewal of the Employment Term pursuant to Section 1 hereof shall be deemed an involuntary termination of Executive by the Company without Cause as of the end of the then Employment Term, but Executive may terminate at any time after the receipt of such notice and shall be treated as if he was terminated without Cause as of such date.
 
.  A Notice of Termination for Cause shall mean a notice that shall indicate the specific termination provision in Section 7(e) relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances which provide for a basis for Termination for Cause.  Further, a Notice of Termination for Cause shall be required to include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board which was called for the purpose of considering such termination and which Executive and his representative had the right to attend and address the Board, finding that, in the good faith of the Board, Executive engaged in conduct set forth in the definition of Cause herein and specifying the particulars thereof in reasonable detail.  The date of termination for a Termination for Cause shall be the date indicated in the Notice of Termination.  Any purported Termination for Cause which is held by a court not to have been based on the grounds set forth in this Agreement or not to have followed the procedures set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed a Termination by the Company without Cause.
(f)
                                   
Notice of Termination for Cause
 
.
8.
                                      
Consequences of Termination of Employment
 
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's death, the employment period under this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement except for:  (i) any compensation earned but not yet paid, including and without limitation, any bonus if declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year, any amount of Base Salary earned but unpaid, any accrued vacation pay payable pursuant to the Company's policies, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to Section 6 (collectively ""), which amounts shall be promptly paid in a lump sum to Executive's estate; (ii) any other amounts or benefits owing to the Executive under the then applicable employee benefit plans, long term incentive plans or equity plans and programs of the Company which shall be paid or treated in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (iii) continuation, for twelve (12) months following the date of death, of Executive's health benefits for Executive's dependents at the same level and cost as if Executive was an employee of the Company; and (iv) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive's death, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid when bonuses for such period are paid to the other executives.
(a)
                                 
Death
Accrued Amounts
 
.  If Executive's employment is terminated by reason of Executive's Disability, Executive shall be entitled to receive the payments and benefits to which his representatives would be entitled in the event of a termination of employment by reason of his death plus Executive shall be entitled to continuation, for twelve (12) months following such termination of employment, of group life and disability insurance benefits, as if Executive were an active employee of the Company.
(b)
                                
Disability
 
.  If (i) Executive terminates his employment hereunder for Good Reason during the Employment Term or (ii) Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company without Cause, then Executive shall be entitled to receive, (A) over a period of twelve (12) months after such termination (except as provided below) an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of his Base Salary and target bonus, if any, for the year in which such termination occurs (provided, however, in the event that the Base Salary or target bonus, if
(c)
                                 
Termination by Executive for Good Reason or Termination by the Company without Cause
any, has been decreased in the twelve (12) months prior to the termination, the amount to be used shall be the highest Base Salary and target bonus, if any, during such twelve (12) month period); (B) any Accrued Amounts at the date of termination; (C) any other amounts or benefits owing to Executive under the then applicable employee benefit, long term incentive or equity plans and programs of the Company, which shall be paid or treated in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs; (D) continuation of the benefits (including without limitation to health, life, and disability) as if Executive were an employee of the Company for twelve (12) months, provided that, if such termination is after a Change in Control, the period of benefit continuation shall be twenty-four (24) months; and (E) if a bonus plan is in place, the product of (x) the target annual bonus for the fiscal year of Executive's termination, multiplied by (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of the current fiscal year during which Executive was employed by the Company, and the denominator of which is 365, which bonus shall be paid when bonuses for such period are paid to the other executives.
 
To the extent that all or any portion of the amount payable pursuant to clause (A) of this Section 8(c) would be subject to the additional 20% tax imposed under Section 409A of the Code (the ""), the parties shall negotiate in good faith an alternative arrangement that will provide Executive with payments that are equivalent in value to the value of the 409A Affected Amount but would not be subject to such additional 20% tax; , , that the Company may in any event at its discretion elect to pay the 409A Affected Amount in the form of a lump sum cash payment, on the latest possible date permitted pursuant to the "short-term deferral" exception as promulgated in Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 (or any subsequent guidance promulgated by the Internal Revenue Service) that would avoid such additional 20% tax, in an amount equal to the present value of the 409A Affected Amount on such payment date, with such present value determined based on an interest rate equal to the Company's then applicable cost of short-term borrowing; , , that if the Company does not elect to pay the discounted lump sum in the preceding proviso, then the provision of a delay in the time of payment of the 409A Affected Amount shall not be permitted without the consent of Executive.
409A Affected Amount
provided
however
provided
further
 
.  If, Executive's employment hereunder is terminated (i) by the Company for Cause or (ii) by Executive without Good Reason, the Executive shall be entitled to receive only his Base Salary through the date of termination, and any unreimbursed business expenses payable pursuant to Section 6 and, if such termination is by Executive without Good Reason, any bonus that has been declared or earned but not yet paid for a completed fiscal year.  Executive's rights under all benefits plans and equity grants shall be determined in accordance with the Company's plans, programs and grants.
(d)
                                
Termination with Cause or Voluntary Resignation without Good Reason
 
.  For purposes of this Agreement, a bonus in respect of services performed in a fiscal year shall not be considered to be earned until after the Committee and/or the Board, as applicable, has reviewed the Company's performance and Executive's performance in respect of such year and has determined the amount of the bonus, if any, to be payable to Executive in respect of such year's performance; , , that if the Executive is still employed by the Company as of December 31 of any year, the Executive shall be considered to have earned the bonus in respect of services performed in such year (to the extent that the Committee and/or the Board determine that such bonus would otherwise have been payable to the Executive had the Executive remained employed through the relevant payment date for such bonus) unless the Executive's employment is subsequently terminated by the Company for Cause or by the Executive without Good Reason.
(e)
                                 
Determination of Earned Bonus
provided
however
.  In the event of any termination of employment hereunder, Executive shall be under no obligation to seek other employment and there shall be no offset against any amounts due Executive under this Agreement on account of any remuneration attributable to any subsequent employment that Executive may obtain.  The amounts payable hereunder shall not be subject to setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against the Executive or others, except upon the Company's obtaining a final unappealable judgment against Executive.
9.
                                      
No Mitigation; No Set-Off
 
.    (a)  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of any one of the following events:
10.
                                
Change in Control
 
any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty-five percent (35%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the ""); , , that the event described in this paragraph (i) shall not be deemed to be a Change in Control if such event results from the acquisition of Company Voting Securities pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii) below);
 (i)
                                 
Company Voting Securities
provided
however
 
individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , that any person becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election or nomination for election was approved (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors who were, as of the date of such approval, Incumbent Directors, shall be an Incumbent Director; , that no individual initially appointed, elected or nominated as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
(ii)
                                 
provided, however
provided, further
 
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving (A) the Company or (B) any of its wholly owned subsidiaries pursuant to which, in the case of this clause (B), Company Voting Securities are issued or issuable (any event described in the immediately preceding clause (A) or (B), a "") or the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company to an entity that is not an Affiliate of the Company (a ""), unless immediately following such Reorganization or Sale: (1) more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of (x) the Company (or, if the Company ceases to exist, the entity resulting from such Reorganization), or, in the case of a Sale, the entity which has acquired all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in either case, the ""), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent entity that directly or indirectly has Beneficial Ownership of more than 50% of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Surviving Entity (the ""), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization or Sale (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Reorganization or Sale), (2) no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the total voting power (in respect of the election of directors, or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the outstanding voting securities of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar officials in the case of an entity other than a corporation) of the Parent Entity (or, if there is no Parent Entity, the Surviving Entity) following the consummation of the Reorganization or Sale were, at the time of the approval by the Board of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Reorganization
(iii)
                              
Reorganization
Sale
Surviving Entity
Parent Entity
or Sale, Incumbent Directors (any Reorganization or Sale which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (1), (2) and (3) above being deemed to be a ""); or
Non-Qualifying Transaction
 
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
(iv)
                             
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (I) if any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities solely as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding, such increased amount shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control; , , that if such Person subsequently becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities Beneficially Owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then be deemed to occur and (II) the acquisition following the Effective Date of Company Voting Securities by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates shall be deemed not to result in a Change in Control until such time as Hutchison Whampoa Limited, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited or any of their Affiliates become the Beneficial Owners in the aggregate of 50% or more of the combined voting power of Company Voting Securities (and for this purpose the preceding clause (I) shall not apply).
provided
however
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(b)
                                
 
(i) "" shall mean an affiliate of the Company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time (the "");
Affiliate
Exchange Act
 
(ii) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act;
Beneficial Owner
 
 (iii) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (1) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (2) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (3) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, (4) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of common stock of the Company or (5) the Executive or any group of persons including Executive (or any entity controlled by Executive or any group of persons including Executive).
Person
 
.  (a)  Executive acknowledges that as a result of his employment by the Company, Executive will obtain confidential information as to the Company and its affiliates and the Company and its affiliates will suffer substantial damage, which would be difficult to ascertain, if Executive should use such confidential information and that because of the nature of the information that will be known to Executive it is necessary for the Company and its affiliates to be protected by the Confidentiality restrictions set forth herein.
11.
                                
Confidential Information
 
During and for a period of five (5) years after the Employment Term, Executive shall not use for his own benefit or disclose confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company
(b)
                                
and its affiliates, and their respective businesses, including any confidential information as to customers of the Company and its affiliates obtained by Executive during his employment by the Company and its affiliates and not (i) otherwise public knowledge or known within the applicable industry or (ii) in connection with performance of his duties hereunder as he deems in good faith to be necessary or desirable.  Executive shall not, without prior written consent of the Company, unless compelled pursuant to the order of a court or other governmental or legal body having jurisdiction over such matter, communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company and those designated by it.  In the event Executive is compelled by order of a court or other governmental or legal body to communicate or divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the foregoing, he shall promptly notify the Company of any such order so it may seek a protective order.
 
Upon termination of his employment with the Company and its affiliates, or at any time as the Company may request, Executive will promptly deliver to the Company, as requested, all documents (whether prepared by the Company, an affiliate, Executive or a third party) relating to the Company, an affiliate or any of their businesses or property which he may possess or have under his direction or control other than documents provided to Executive in his capacity as a participant in any employee benefit plan, policy or program of the Company or any agreement by and between Executive and the Company with regard to Executive's employment or severance.
(c)
                                 
 
In the event of a breach or potential breach of this Section 11, Executive acknowledges that the Company and its affiliates will be caused irreparable injury and that money damages may not be an adequate remedy and agree that the Company and its affiliates shall be entitled to injunctive relief (in addition to its other remedies at law) to have the provisions of this Section 11 enforced.  It is hereby acknowledged that the provisions of this Section 11 are for the benefit of the Company and all of the affiliates of the Company and each such entity may enforce the provisions of this Section 11 and only the applicable entity can waive the rights hereunder with respect to its confidential information and employees.
(d)
                                
 
. The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Executive to the fullest extent permitted by law for any action or inaction of Executive while serving as an officer and director of the Company or, at the Company's request, as an officer or director of any other entity or as a fiduciary of any benefit plan.  The Company shall cover the Executive under directors and officers liability insurance both during and, while potential liability exists, after the Employment Term in the same amount and to the same extent as the Company covers its other officers and directors.
12.
                                
Indemnification
 
.
13.
                                
Legal Fees
 
The Company shall pay the Executive's reasonable legal fees and costs associated with entering into this Agreement.
(a)
                                 
 
All disputes and controversies arising under or in connection with this Agreement, other than the seeking of injunctive or other equitable relief pursuant to Section 11 hereof, shall be settled by arbitration conducted before a panel of three (3) arbitrators sitting in New York City, New York, or such other location agreed by the parties hereto, in accordance with the rules for expedited resolution of commercial disputes of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The determination of the majority of the arbitrators shall be final and binding on the parties.  Judgment may be entered on the award of the arbitrator in any court having proper jurisdiction.  All expenses of such arbitration, including the fees and expenses of the counsel of the Executive, shall be borne by the Company unless the arbitrators determine that Executive's position was overall frivolous or otherwise taken in bad faith, in which case the arbitrators may determine that Executive shall bear his own legal fees.
(b)
                                
In the event after a Change in Control either party files for arbitration to resolve any dispute as to whether a termination is for Cause or Good Reason, until such dispute is determined by the arbitrators, the Executive shall continue to be treated economically and benefit wise in the manner asserted by him in the arbitration effective as of the date of the filing of the arbitration, subject to the Executive promptly refunding any amounts paid to him, paying the cost of any benefits provided to him and paying to the Company the profits in any stock option or other equity awards exercised or otherwise realized by him during the pendency of the arbitration which he is ultimately held not to be entitled to; provided the arbitrators may terminate such payments and benefits in the event that they determine at any point that the Executive is intentionally delaying conclusion of the arbitration.
(c)
                                 
 
.
14.
                                
Reserved
 
.
15.
                                
Certain Additional Payments by the Company
 
 
Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any payment, award, benefit or distribution (or any acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or distribution) by the Company (or any of its affiliated entities) or any entity which effectuates a Change in Control (or any of its affiliated entities) to or for the benefit of Executive (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise, but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 15) (the "") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), or any interest or penalties are incurred by Executive with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are hereinafter collectively referred to as the ""), then the Company shall pay to Executive an additional payment (a "") in an amount such that after payment by Executive of all taxes (including any Excise Tax) imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, Executive retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the sum of (x) the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments and (y) the product of any deductions disallowed because of the inclusion of the Gross-up Payment in Executive's adjusted gross income and the highest applicable marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made.  For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-up Payment, the Executive shall be deemed to (i) pay federal income taxes at the highest marginal rates of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made, and (ii) pay applicable state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation for the calendar year in which the Gross-up Payment is to be made, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 15(a), if it shall be determined that Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the Payments would not be subject to the Excise Tax if the Payments were reduced by an amount that is less than 5% of the portion of the Payments that would be treated as "parachute payments" under Section 280G of the Code, then the amounts payable to Executive under this Agreement shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the maximum amount that could be paid to Executive without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the ""), and no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive.  The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing first the payments under clauses (A) and (E) of Section 8(c), unless an alternative method of reduction is elected by Executive.  For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under this Agreement (and no other Payments) shall be reduced.  If the reduction of the amounts payable hereunder would not result in a reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, no amounts payable under this Agreement shall be reduced pursuant to this provision.
(a)
                                 
Payments
Code
Excise Tax
Gross-Up Payment
Safe Harbor Cap
 
(b)
                                
Subject to the provisions of Section 15(a), all determinations required to be made under this Section 15, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up
Payment, the reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determinations, shall be made by the public accounting firm that is retained by the Company as of the date immediately prior to the Change in Control (the "") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and Executive within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Company or the Executive that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company (collectively, the "").  In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change in Control, Executive may appoint another nationally recognized public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).  All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company and the Company shall enter into any agreement requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance of the services hereunder.  The Gross-up Payment under this Section 15 with respect to any Payments shall be made no later than thirty (30) days following such Payment.  If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by Executive, it shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on Executive's applicable federal income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar penalty.  In the event the Accounting Firm determines that the Payments shall be reduced to the Safe Harbor Cap, it shall furnish Executive with a written opinion to such effect.  The Determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and Executive.  As a result of the uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the Determination, it is possible that Gross-up Payments which will not have been made by the Company should have been made ("") or Gross-up Payments are made by the Company which should not have been made (""), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder.  In the event that the Executive thereafter is required to make payment of any Excise Tax or additional Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of Executive.  In the event the amount of the Gross-up Payment exceeds the amount necessary to reimburse the Executive for his Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Overpayment that has been made and any such Overpayment (together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2) of the Code) shall be promptly paid by Executive (to the extent he has received a refund if the applicable Excise Tax has been paid to the Internal Revenue Service) to or for the benefit of the Company; provided, however, that such repayment obligation shall not apply to the extent it would be treated as a prohibited personal loan from the Company to Executive for purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  Executive shall cooperate, to the extent his expenses are reimbursed by the Company, with any reasonable requests by the Company in connection with any contests or disputes with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the Excise Tax.
Accounting Firm
Determination
Underpayment
Overpayment
 
.
16.
                                
Miscellaneous
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without reference to principles of conflict of laws.
(a)
                                 
Governing Law
 
.  This Agreement and the instruments contemplated herein, contain the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the employment of Executive by the Company from and after the Effective Date and supersedes any prior agreements between the Company and Executive (including but not limited to the Original Employment Arrangement).  There are no restrictions, agreements, promises, warranties, covenants or undertakings between the parties with respect to the subject matter herein other than those expressly set forth herein and therein.  This Agreement may not be altered, modified, or amended except by written instrument signed by the parties hereto.
(b)
                                
Entire Agreement/Amendments
.  The failure of a party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion shall not be considered a waiver of such party's rights or deprive such party of the right thereafter to insist upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement.  Any such waiver must be in writing and signed by Executive or an authorized officer of the Company, as the case may be.
(c)
                                 
No Waiver
 
.  This Agreement shall not be assignable by Executive.  This Agreement shall be assignable by the Company only to an acquirer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, provided such acquirer promptly assumes all of the obligations hereunder of the Company in a writing delivered to the Executive and otherwise complies with the provisions hereof with regard to such assumption.
(d)
                                
Assignment
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees legatees and permitted assignees of the parties hereto.
(e)
                                 
Successors; Binding Agreement; Third Party Beneficiaries
 
.  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (i) when faxed or delivered, or (ii) two (2) business days after being mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the respective addresses set forth on the initial page of this Agreement, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith.  Notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
(f)
                                   
Communications
 
.  The Company may withhold from any and all amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state and local taxes as may be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
(g)
                                
Withholding Taxes
 
.  The respective rights and obligations of the parties hereunder, including without limitation Section 11 hereof, shall survive any termination of Executive's employment to the extent necessary to the agreed preservation of such rights and obligations.
(h)
                                
Survivorship
 
.  This Agreement may be signed in counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
(i)
                                    
Counterparts
 
.  The headings of the sections contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be deemed to control or affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Agreement.
(j)
                                    
Headings
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 


