FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20070508182152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
 
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
 quarter ended March 31, 2007.  A copy of priceline.com's consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2007 and consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2007 are included in the financial and statistical supplement attached to the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  The consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2007 and consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2007 shall be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
On May 8, 2007, priceline.com announced its financial results for the 1
st
Item 7.01.              Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 8, 2007, priceline.com announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007.  A copy of priceline.com's press release announcing these financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 quarter in year-over-year gross travel bookings growth, but that the rate of decline was not as steep as the company had previously forecast.  The company stated that its domestic gross travel bookings grew 1% in the 1 quarter 2007 compared to the same period in 2006, a decrease from 12% growth in the 4 quarter 2007.  The company identified the previously announced termination of its agreement with Orbitz and previously forecasted weakness in retail airline ticket sales (a year-over-year 12% decline in the unit sales of airline tickets in the 1 quarter 2007) as being the primary reasons for slowing growth in domestic gross travel bookings.  The company announced that Booking.com's revenue and gross profit in the 1 quarter 2007 were $48 million and $47.1 million, respectively. The company explained that its "pro forma" gross profit in the 1 quarter was substantially higher than its previously announced forecast primarily due to gross travel bookings over-performance versus the company's prior forecast and a favorable shift in the domestic mix of its business to higher margin merchant services.
During its earnings conference call, the company stated that Booking.com's gross travel bookings had grown 91% when compared to the same period in the prior year to $519.7 million, which significantly exceeded the company's prior forecast.  The company noted that Booking.com had experienced monthly sequential declines in the 1
st
st
th
st
st
st
 quarter 2007 advertising expense was below the company's previous guidance and a significant driver of the company's 1 quarter "pro forma" profit. The company noted that the decrease in advertising spending was attributable to, among other things, higher internal return on investment hurdles.
The company explained that its 1
st
st
 quarter 2007 it had generated approximately $18.8 million in net cash from operating activities and had capital expenditures of approximately $2.2 million.
Priceline.com stated that in the 1
st
With respect to 2
nd
quarter 2007 guidance, the company noted that it expected a year-over-year decline in domestic gross travel bookings, though it expected its higher margin merchant gross travel bookings in the 2
nd
 quarter 2007 to be roughly the same as the prior year.  Priceline.com announced that it expected consolidated advertising expenses of approximately $52 to $55 million in the 2
nd
 quarter 2007 and expected approximately 75-80% of that amount to be spent "on-line."  Priceline.com estimated that sales and marketing expenses in the 2
nd
 quarter 2007 would be between $13 and $14 million.  Priceline.com stated that it estimated that personnel costs, excluding stock-based compensation expense, would be approximately $19.5 to $20.5 million in the 2
nd
 quarter 2007.  With respect to 2
nd
 quarter 2007, priceline.com stated it estimated that general and administrative expenses would be approximately $8.0 to $8.5 million, information technology expenses would be approximately $3.0 to $3.2 million, and depreciation
2
and amortization expenses, excluding acquisition related amortization, would be approximately $3.2 million.  Priceline.com said it expected an aggregate expense of approximately $1.3 million in the 2
nd
 quarter 2007 associated with "net" interest income, foreign exchange expense, equity in income of Priceline Mortgage and minority interest expense.  Priceline.com estimated that it would have cash income tax expense of approximately $7.0 million in the 2
nd
 quarter 2007 comprised of alternative minimum tax in the United States and additional income taxes in Europe.
The company noted that its full-year 2007 "pro forma" financial guidance was based upon a "pro forma" diluted share count of approximately 42.6 million shares (which includes a calculation of the economic dilutive impact of all of the company's outstanding convertible notes and stock options, net of the favorable economic impact of the hedges associated with the company's outstanding convertible notes).  The company explained that the estimated "pro forma" share count is based upon an assumption that the future trading price of priceline.com's stock for the remainder of 2007 will be the closing price of the stock on May 7, 2007  $62.54  which produces an average trading price for full-year 2007 of $58.59.  The company emphasized, as it had on its prior earnings conference call, that the calculation of diluted shares outstanding  and, as a result, the calculation of "pro forma" net income per diluted share  could be materially affected by the trading levels of its stock.  The company explained that if priceline.com stock traded above the conversion prices in the company's outstanding convertible notes, the company's diluted share count would increase by the net number of shares that would become issuable to the holders of the company's outstanding convertible notes and, as a consequence, have a dilutive impact on "pro forma" net income per share results.  The company noted that at an average stock price of $50 per share for full-year 2007, the company's "pro forma" diluted share count would be approximately 40.8 million shares, at an average stock price of $60 per share for full-year 2007, the company's "pro forma" diluted share count would be approximately 42.9 million shares,  that at an average stock price of $70 per share for full-year 2007, the company's "pro forma" diluted share count would be approximately 44.4 million shares and that at an average stock price of $80 per share for full-year 2007, the company's "pro forma" diluted share count would be approximately 45.6 million shares.  The company emphasized that it could not predict its future stock price, that its stock price could trade below the per share prices above and that the estimates provided above were meant
only
to emphasize that a higher stock price would result in more shares being included in the company's "pro forma" net income per diluted share calculation and that the relationship between the company's stock price and share count was not linear.
Finally, the company noted that in 2008 and beyond it expected its European operations to grow their pre tax income at significantly higher rates than the company's domestic operations and, therefore, the company expected its cash tax rate to increase in 2008 and beyond as its European operations generate an increasing share of the company's estimated pretax income.
The information set forth above and in the attached press release contains forward-looking statements relating to priceline.com's performance during 2007.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.  All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to priceline.com on the date this report was submitted.  Priceline.com undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect priceline.com's operating results is included in priceline.com's recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including priceline.com's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 and priceline.com's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about May 10, 2007.  The information set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the press release (which includes a financial and statistical supplement
3
and information about forward-looking statements), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 7.01 (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto and the accompanying financial and statistical supplement and related information) shall not be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
4
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  May 8, 2007
5
 

Exhibit 99.1
 quarter 2007.  Gross travel bookings for the 1 quarter, which refers to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by consumers, rose 33.7% year-over-year to $998 million.
     NORWALK, Conn., May 8, 2007 . . . Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) today reported its financial results for the 1
st
st
 quarter of $301.4 million, a 24.6% increase over a year ago.  Priceline.com's GAAP gross profit for the 1 quarter was $119.7 million, up 65.7% from the prior year. Priceline.com had a GAAP net loss for the 1 quarter 2007 of $16.3 million or $0.44 per diluted share.  The GAAP results include, among other things, the impact of litigation settlement expenses and an excise tax refund.  Several days ago, priceline.com announced that it had agreed to settle the securities class action litigation that was filed against the Company in 2000 and pay the class plaintiffs $80 million, of which $30 million will be funded by priceline.com's insurance carriers.  Priceline.com incurred a 1 quarter 2007 net charge of approximately $55 million to settle the litigation and cover expenses.  Priceline.com also announced that in March and April it received notices from the Internal Revenue Service that the Company's previously disclosed refund request for excise taxes paid on merchant airline tickets had been approved for payment.  As a result, priceline.com recorded in the 1 quarter $15.9 million in revenue and $2.8 million in interest income related to the March IRS notice and expects to record approximately $3 million of additional income in the 2 quarter 2007 related to the April notice, including estimated accrued interest.
Priceline.com had GAAP revenues in the 1
st
st
st
st
st
nd
 quarter of $285.5 million, an 18.0% increase over a year ago.  Pro forma gross profit for the 1 quarter 2007 was $103.8 million, an increase of 43.1% over the same period in the prior year.  Pro forma net income for the quarter was $17.4 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, which compares to $7.6 million, or $0.19 per diluted share in the same period a year ago.  First Call analyst consensus for the 1 quarter 2007 was $0.27 per diluted share. The section below entitled "" provides a definition and information about the use of pro forma financial measures in this press release and the attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
Priceline had pro forma revenues in the 1
st
st
st
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 "First quarter pro forma earnings growth exceeded our expectations in both the United States and Europe," said priceline.com President and Chief Executive Officer Jeffery H. Boyd.  "In Europe, Booking.com benefited from 91% growth in gross travel bookings as we continued to build the business across Europe.  In the United States, pro forma earnings growth was driven by 8% growth in merchant gross travel bookings and greater efficiencies in marketing, which cost gross travel bookings, but significantly decreased acquisition costs."
 quarter 2007, Mr. Boyd said, "We expect to see continued growth in our European operations from increased penetration of larger markets, geographic expansion and integration initiatives.  In our domestic business, we believe the merchant business and marketing efficiencies will continue to drive domestic earnings growth; however, we believe that the impact of lower margins on retail airline tickets and the higher return hurdles we have imposed on marketing investment will continue to negatively impact the retail airline ticket business and, consequently, domestic gross travel bookings.  As we approach the peak summer travel season, we believe that priceline.com's Name Your Own Price travel services can effectively meet the needs of consumers concerned with high fuel prices and mixed economic signals and we expect to emphasize that money-saving message as the Priceline Negotiator ad campaign featuring William Shatner continues."
Looking towards the 2
nd
Forward Guidance
For full-year 2007, priceline.com reiterated the guidance it had given the previous week in connection with the announcement to settle the 2000 securities litigation and said that it expects to generate approximately $4.1 to $4.2 billion in gross travel bookings in 2007 and to earn approximately $2.90 to $3.10 of pro forma net income per diluted share for full year 2007.  The full-year 2007 pro forma net income per share estimate is based upon an estimated pro forma fully diluted share count of 42.6 million shares.  The estimate of pro forma fully diluted share count uses actual year-to-date stock price data as well as estimated future stock prices based on the closing price of the Company's stock as of May 7, 2007 to calculate the potential dilutive impact of stock options and convertible debt.  Any material increases or decreases in priceline.com's stock price will impact the number of fully diluted shares outstanding, which in turn would impact the company's net income per diluted share results.
 quarter 2007:
Priceline.com said it was targeting the following for 2
nd
Year-over-year increases in overall gross travel bookings of approximately 23% to 28%.
                 
Year-over-year increases in gross travel bookings from Booking.com of approximately 72% to 76%.
                 
2
Year-over-year increase in pro forma revenue of approximately 10% to 15%.
                 
Year-over-year increase in pro forma gross profit of approximately 34% to 38%.
                 
Pro forma net income of between $0.80 and $0.90 per diluted share.
                 
 quarter and full-year 2007:
Pro forma net income per diluted share guidance for the 2
nd
                 
excludes cash expenses associated with the settlement of the 2000 securities litigation,
                 
excludes the cash benefit associated with the refund of excise taxes (and related accrued interest) paid on merchant airline tickets,
                 
excludes non-cash amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles,
        & #160;        
excludes non-cash stock-based compensation expense,
                 
excludes option payroll tax expense,
       60;          
excludes non-cash income tax expense and reflects the impact on income taxes of the pro forma adjustments,
                 
excludes non-cash preferred stock dividends,
                 
includes the additional impact on minority interest expense of the pro forma adjustments described above,
                 
includes the anti-dilutive impact of the "Conversion Spread Hedges" (see below) on outstanding diluted common shares outstanding, and
                 
includes the dilutive impact of additional warrants and shares of unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude preferred stock dividend and stock-based compensation.
When aggregated, the foregoing adjustments are expected to increase pro forma net income over GAAP net income by approximately $12 million for the 2
nd
 quarter 2007 and $70 million for full-year 2007.  On a per share basis, the Company estimates GAAP net income of approximately $0.52 to $0.62 per diluted share for the 2
nd
 quarter 2007 and GAAP net income of approximately $1.25 to $1.45 per diluted share for the full-year 2007.
3
About Priceline.com Incorporated
Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) operates priceline.com, a leading U.S. online travel service for value-conscious leisure travelers, and Priceline Europe, a leading European online hotel reservation service.
 service, which can deliver the lowest prices available.
In the U.S., priceline.com gives customers more ways to save on their airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, vacation packages and cruises than any other Internet travel service.  In addition to getting all the best published prices, leisure travelers can narrow their searches using priceline.com's TripFilter advanced search technology, create packages to save even more money, and take advantage of priceline.com's famous
Name-Your-Own-Price
Priceline Europe operates one of Europe's fastest growing hotel reservation services through its Booking.com network of hotel reservation services, Activehotels.com and priceline.co.uk.  Priceline Europe operates in 40 countries in 12 languages and offers its customers in Europe and the U.S. access to approximately 25,000 participating European hotels.
Priceline.com also operates the following travel websites:  Travelweb.com, Lowestfare.com, RentalCars.com and BreezeNet.com.  Priceline.com also has a personal finance service that offers home mortgages, refinancing and home equity loans through an independent licensee.  Priceline.com licenses its business model to independent licensees, including priceline mortgage and certain international licensees.
For more information about priceline.com:
To book flights http://www.priceline.com/flights/
To book hotels http://www.priceline.com/hotels/
To book rental cars http://www.priceline.com/rentalcars/
To book a vacation package http://www.priceline.com/vacationpackages/
To book a cruise http://www.pricelinecruiseoutlet.com
http://www.priceline.com/pricebreakers
To see our PriceBreakers deals:
For check our travel guides: http://travela.priceline.com/travelguides/
To watch out TV ads: http://www.priceline.com/promo/shatner_pcln_negotiator.asp
Other priceline.com affiliated sites include:
General travel information and trip planning http://www.mytravelguide.com
Travel reservations http://www.lowestfare.com
   http://www.travelweb.com
Rental cars http://www.RentalCars.com
                   http://www.BreezeNet.com
European hotels http://www.booking.com
                           http://www.priceline.co.uk
4
Press information:   Brian Ek  203-299-8167  (brian.ek@priceline.com)
Information About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "goal," "believe(s)," "intend," "expect(s)," "will," "may," "should," "could," "plan(s)," "anticipate(s)," "estimate(s)," "predict(s)," "potential," "target(s)," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements:
 adverse changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel services as a result of, among other things, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic disease;
 adverse changes in the Company's relationships with airlines and other product and  service providers which could include, without limitation, the withdrawal of suppliers from the priceline.com system (either priceline.com's "retail" or "opaque" services, or both);
 the loss or reduction of global distribution fees;
 the bankruptcy or insolvency of another major domestic airline;
 the effects of increased competition;
 systems-related failures and/or security breaches, including without limitation, any security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer information, or the failure to comply with various state laws applicable to the company's obligations in the event of such a breach;
 difficulties integrating recent acquisitions, such as Booking.com Ltd. and Booking.com B.V., including ensuring the effectiveness of the design and operation of internal controls and disclosure controls of acquired businesses;
 a change by a major search engine to its search engine algorithms that negatively affects the search engine ranking of the company or its 3
rd
 party distribution partners;
 legal and regulatory risks; and
 the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.
 
5
For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Unless required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Pro forma revenue, Pro forma gross profit, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share are "non-GAAP financial measures," as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  Priceline.com believes that pro forma revenue, pro forma gross profit, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring income or expense items are useful for investors to evaluate priceline.com's future on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of priceline.com's projected cash earnings and performance with its historical results from prior periods.  Pro forma financial information is adjusted for the following items:
                 
Cash expenses associated with the settlement of the 2000 securities litigation are excluded because of the non-recurring nature of the settlement.
                 
Cash benefit associated with the refund of excise taxes paid on merchant airline tickets that was approved for payment by the Internal Revenue Service is excluded because of its non-recurring nature.
                 
Amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles is excluded from pro forma gross profit and pro forma net income because it does not impact cash earnings.
                 
Stock-based compensation expense and the non-cash expense associated with the payment of preferred stock dividends are excluded from pro forma net income because they do not impact cash earnings and are reflected in earnings per share through increased share counts.
                 
Option payroll tax expense is excluded because the expense is driven primarily by stock option exercise activity and the market price of priceline.com's common stock and often shows volatility unrelated to operating results.
                 
The restructuring charge, net is excluded because it can impact comparability of earnings with historical results from prior periods.
Income tax (expense) benefit is adjusted for the tax impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above and to exclude tax expense recorded where no actual tax payments are owed because of available net operating loss carryforwards.
                 
                 
Minority interest is adjusted for the impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above.
                 
Finally, for calculating pro forma net income per share:
o
                
net income is adjusted for the impact of the pro forma adjustments described above
6
 
fully diluted share count is adjusted to include the anti-dilutive impact of  the Conversion Spread Hedges that increase the effective conversion price of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge when shares are delivered.
o
                
fully diluted share count in 2006 is adjusted to exclude the impact of EITF 04-08 ("Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share"), because the common stock that underlie priceline.com's 1% Convertible Senior Notes and priceline.com's 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes were not issuable because our common stock did not trade above the respective contingent conversion prices.
o
                
o
                
All common stock warrants and shares of restricted common stock are included in the calculation of pro forma net income per share because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude our preferred stock dividend and stock-based compensation expense.
The presentation of this financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  The attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Airline excise tax refund is recorded in Revenue
(a)
         
Amortization of acquired intangible assets is recorded in Cost of revenues and Depreciation and amortization
(b)
         
Stock-based compensation is recorded in Personnel expense
(c)
         
Securities litigation settlement and option payroll taxes are recorded in General and administrative expense
(d)
         
Accrued interest income on excise tax refund is recorded in Interest income
(e)
         
Restructuring charge and Preferred stock dividend are recorded in those respective expense line items
(f)
           
Adjustments for the tax impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments and to exclude non-cash income taxes are recorded in Income tax benefit
(g)
        
Impact on minority interests of other pro forma adjustments are recorded in Equity in income (loss) of investees and minority interests
(h)
        
Common share equivalents related to convertible debt, stock options and restricted stock were excluded from the calculation of GAAP net income per share because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive since there was a GAAP net loss
(i)
           
Reflects the impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges that increase the effective conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011 and the Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013 from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge when shares are delivered.
(j)
           
All common stock warrants and shares of restricted common stock are included in the calculation of pro forma net income per share because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude our preferred stock dividend and stock-based compensation expense
(k)
       
Excludes the GAAP dilutive impact of convertible debt pursuant to EITF 04-08 because the common stock underlying the convertible debt was not issuable since our common stock did not trade above the contingent conversion prices
(l)
           
Dollar and unit data in thousands
priceline.com Incorporated
Statistical Data
 
 
 
 
Gross Bookings represent the total dollar value of travel booked, inclusive of taxes and fees.
All figures reflect results from Booking.com B.V. since acquisition.


