FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20070212183024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
Item 2.02.
        
 quarter and year-ended December 31, 2006.  A copy of priceline.com's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 and consolidated statement of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 are included in the financial and statistical supplement attached to the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 and consolidated statement of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 shall be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
On February 12, 2007, priceline.com announced its financial results for the 4
th
Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01.
        
On February 12, 2007, priceline.com announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year-ended December 31, 2006.  A copy of priceline.com's press release announcing these financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 quarter 2006 had slowed from the previous quarter, but that Priceline Europe's growth rate in each of November and December 2006 exceeded its October 2006 growth rate.  The company also noted that Priceline Europe's agency revenues in the 4 quarter 2006 were $47.4 million.  The company explained that the increase in "merchant" gross travel bookings in the 4 quarter 2006 compared to the 3 quarter 2006 was attributable to strong growth in retail hotel merchant room night sales and growth in unit sales of the company's opaque air, hotel and rental car services. The company noted that the 4 quarter 2006 growth in net income compared to prior quarters in 2006 was driven by a "more balanced" contribution of earnings growth from the company's domestic and European businesses.  The company explained that during the 4 quarter 2006 it experienced a change in the mix of its domestic business, with greater contribution than it expected from its higher margin merchant services and less contribution than it expected from its retail agency services.  This change in the mix of the business towards the company's merchant services  which are reported on a "gross basis"  led to an approximately 28% year-over-year increase in 4 quarter 2006 revenues.
During its earnings conference call, priceline.com noted that Priceline Europe's gross travel bookings growth rate in the 4
th
th
th
rd
th
th
th
 quarter 2006 it had approximately $32 million in net cash from operating activities (for a total of approximately $112 million for the full-year ended December 31, 2006) and total capital expenditures of approximately $3.2 million.
Priceline.com stated that in the 4
th
With respect to 2007 guidance, priceline.com announced that it expected consolidated advertising expenses of approximately $43.5 to $46.5 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2007 and expected approximately 70-75% of that amount to be spent "on-line."  Priceline.com estimated that sales and marketing expenses in the 1
st
 quarter 2007 would be between $11 and $12 million.  Priceline.com stated that it estimated that personnel costs, excluding stock-based compensation expense, would be approximately $17.5 to $18.5 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2007.  With respect to 1
st
 quarter 2007, priceline.com stated it estimated that general and administrative expenses would be approximately $8.0 to $8.5 million, information technology expenses would be approximately $3.0 to $3.2 million, and depreciation and amortization expenses, excluding acquisition related amortization, would be approximately $2.9 million.  Priceline.com said it expected an aggregate expense of approximately $2.6 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2007 associated with "net" interest income, foreign exchange expense, equity in income of Priceline Mortgage and minority interest expense.  Priceline.com estimated that it would have cash income tax expense of approximately
 
$1.0 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2007 comprised of alternative minimum tax in the United States and additional income taxes in Europe.
With respect to GAAP financial results, the company said it expected to report between a GAAP net loss of approximately $0.06 per diluted share and GAAP net income of approximately $0.03 per diluted share in the 1
st
 quarter 2007 and GAAP net income between $1.35 to $1.65 per diluted share for full-year 2007.  In discussing its guidance, the company emphasized that, while Priceline Europe had delivered to date substantially ahead of the company's expectations, it was likely that Priceline Europe's annualized growth rates would decline as its performance was compared to stronger 1
st
 quarter 2006 and full-year 2006 results.
The company noted that its financial guidance was based upon a current diluted share count of approximately 40.3 million shares for the 1
st
 quarter 2007 and approximately 40.6 million shares for the full-year 2007. Those estimated share counts are based upon a February 12
th
 closing stock price of $ 45.93. The company emphasized, as it had on its prior earnings conference call, that the calculation of diluted shares outstanding  and, as a result, the calculation of net income per diluted share  could be materially affected by the trading levels of its stock.  The company explained that if priceline.com stock traded above the conversion prices in the company's outstanding convertible notes, the company's diluted share count would increase by the net number of shares that would become issuable to the holders of the company's outstanding convertible notes and, as a consequence, have a dilutive impact on net income per share.  The company noted that at a stock price of $40 per share, the company's diluted share count would be approximately 39.9 million, at $50 per share, its diluted share count would be approximately 41.0 million and that at $60 per share its diluted share count would be approximately 43.1 million.
The information set forth above and in the attached press release contains forward-looking statements relating to priceline.com's performance during 2007.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.  All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to priceline.com on the date this report was submitted.  Priceline.com undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect priceline.com's operating results is included in priceline.com's recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and will also be included in priceline.com's Annual Report Report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about March 1, 2007.  The information set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the press release (which includes a financial and statistical supplement and information about forward-looking statements), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 7.01 (including Exhibit 99.1 hereto and the accompanying financial and statistical supplement and related information) shall not be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  February 12, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 quarter and full-year 2006.  Gross travel bookings for the 4 quarter, which refers to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by consumers, rose 38.3% year-over-year to $742.4 million.  Revenues in the 4 quarter were $260.1 million, a 27.5% increase over a year ago.
     NORWALK, Conn., February 12, 2007 . . . Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) today reported its financial results for the 4
th
th
th
 quarter 2006 was $99.5 million, up 53.3% from the prior year.  Priceline.com had 4 quarter 2006 GAAP net income of $13.2 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, which compares to $3.8 million, or $0.09 per diluted share in the same period a year ago.  GAAP net income in the 4 quarter 2006 was positively affected by an income tax benefit in the amount of $3.0 million resulting from the impact on deferred taxes of a reduction in the Netherlands' statutory tax rate enacted in the 4 quarter of 2006.
Priceline.com's GAAP gross profit for the 4
th
th
th
th
 quarter 2006 was $99.9 million, an increase of 53.0% over the same period in the prior year.  Pro forma net income for the quarter was $22.4 million, or $0.58 per diluted share, which compares to $11.4 million, or $0.28 per diluted share in the same period a year ago.  First Call analyst consensus for the 4th quarter 2006 was $0.41 per diluted share.  The section below entitled "" provides a definition and information about the use of pro forma financial measures in this press release and the attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
Pro forma gross profit for the 4
th
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
For full-year 2006, priceline.com reported gross travel bookings of $3.3 billion, a 49.1% increase over full-year 2005.  Full-year 2006 revenues were $1.1 billion versus $962.7 million a year ago.  Priceline.com's GAAP gross profit for 2006 was $401.1 million, a 49.7% increase over the prior year.  Full-year 2006 GAAP net income was $72.5 million, or $1.68 per diluted share.  Pro forma gross profit for full-year 2006 was $401.0 million, a 48.6% increase over 2005.  Pro forma net income for 2006 was $83.1 million, or $2.03 per diluted share.  Full-year 2006 results include the operating results of Booking.com B.V., which was acquired in July 2005. GAAP net income for full-year 2006 and 2005 was positively affected by non-cash US income tax benefits amounting to $28.1 million and $170.5 million, respectively, from reversing a portion of priceline.com's deferred tax asset valuation allowance.  GAAP net income in 2006 was also positively affected by $3.0 million resulting from the benefit described above from the reduction in the Netherlands' statutory tax rate.
 quarter," said priceline.com President and Chief Executive Officer Jeffery H. Boyd.  "First was the strong performance of Booking.com, our European business, which experienced gross travel bookings of $319.1 million, a year-over-year increase of 101%.  During the quarter, Booking.com successfully maintained high growth rates in continental Europe, enhanced the brand's ability to market on a pan-European basis, and continued to grow its business between Europe and the United States.  We believe that solid execution by Booking.com's management and employees continues to yield increased market share for our European business.  Second, high retail travel prices during the holidays created strong demand for priceline.com's money-saving domestic services, particularly our Name Your Own Price option.  Fourth-quarter domestic gross travel bookings were up 12% year over year and merchant bookings, which include our opaque services, were up 18%."
"Two major factors contributed to Priceline.com's over-performance in the 4
th
In the United States, priceline.com's goal is to be the leading online destination for value-conscious leisure travelers.  2006 milestones achieved include:
Roll-out of More Ways to Save, providing a consistent presentation of retail and opaque options for all travel services
                 
Over 19,000 participating hotels in merchant retail and over 13,000 in opaque
                 
Launch of Sabre and G2 as GDS alternatives and recontracting with major airlines
                 
Launch of the new multi-media advertising campaign called The Negotiator, featuring William Shatner
                 
Priceline Europe's goal is to be the leading online hotel reservation service in Europe.  2006 milestones achieved include:
Annual gross travel bookings growth of 111% (assuming Booking.com was owned for all of 2005)
                 
10.9 million room nights booked in 2006
                 
Over 25,000 participating hotels
                 
Hotel inventory available in more than 50 countries
                 
Hotel content available in 15 languages
                 
Development of Eastern European and cross-Atlantic business
                 
Looking towards 2007, Mr. Boyd said, "We are building our flagship brand in Europe, Booking.com, on a foundation of outstanding inventory, true pan-European demand and a differentiated business model that we believe is better for both customers and suppliers.  In the United States, our full-service travel offering adds choices and context to our deeply discounted opaque service, creating a unique customer experience and, in our opinion, the best travel value available.  We believe these distinctive brand strengths served us well in 2006 and position us well for 2007."
2
Forward Guidance
For full-year 2007, priceline.com said that it expects to generate approximately $4 billion in gross travel bookings.  Priceline.com said that it expects to earn approximately $2.60 to $2.90 of pro forma net income per diluted share for full-year 2007.
 quarter 2007:
Priceline.com said it was targeting the following for 1
st
Year-over-year increases in overall gross travel bookings of approximately 25-30%.
                 
Year-over-year increases in gross travel bookings from Priceline Europe of approximately 75-80%.
                 
Year-over-year increase in revenue of approximately 15%.
                 
Year-over-year increase in pro forma gross profit of approximately 30% to 35%.
                 
Pro forma net income of between $0.22 and $0.30 per diluted share.
                 
Pro forma net income per diluted share guidance for the 1st quarter and full-year 2007:
                 
excludes non-cash amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles,
                 
excludes non-cash stock-based compensation expense,
                 
excludes option payroll tax expense,
                 
excludes non-cash income tax expense,
                 
excludes non-cash preferred stock dividends,
                 
includes the additional impact on minority interest expense of the pro forma adjustments described above,
                 
includes the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges on outstanding diluted common shares outstanding, and
                 
includes the dilutive impact of additional shares of unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units.
When aggregated, the foregoing adjustments are expected to increase pro forma net income over GAAP net income by approximately $11 million for the 1
st
 quarter 2007 and $50 million for full-year 2007.  On a per share basis, the company estimates between a GAAP net loss of approximately $0.06 per diluted share and GAAP net income of approximately $0.03 per diluted share for the 1
st
 quarter 2007 and GAAP net income of approximately $1.35 to $1.65 per diluted share for the full-year 2007.
3
About Priceline.com Incorporated
Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) operates priceline.com, a leading U.S. online travel service for value-conscious leisure travelers, and Priceline Europe, a leading European online hotel reservation service.
In the U.S., priceline.com gives customers more ways to save on their airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, vacation packages and cruises than any other Internet travel
service.  In addition to getting all the best published prices, leisure travelers can narrow their searches using priceline.com's TripFilter advanced search technology, create
 service, which can deliver the lowest prices available.
packages to save even more money, and take advantage of priceline.com's famous
Name-Your-Own-Price
Priceline Europe operates one of Europe's fastest growing hotel reservation services through its Booking.com network of hotel reservation services, Activehotels.com and priceline.co.uk.  Priceline Europe operates in more than 50 countries in 15 languages and offers its customers in Europe and the U.S. access to approximately 25,000 participating European hotels.
Priceline.com also operates the following travel websites:  Travelweb.com, Lowestfare.com, RentalCars.com and BreezeNet.com.  Priceline.com also has a personal finance service that offers home mortgages, refinancing and home equity loans through an independent licensee.  Priceline.com licenses its business model to independent licensees, including priceline mortgage and certain international licensees.
Press information:   Brian Ek  203-299-8167  ()
brian.ek@priceline.com
Information About Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "goal," "believe(s)," "intend," "expect(s)," "will," "may," "should," "could," "plan(s)," "anticipate(s)," "estimate(s)," "predict(s)," "potential," "target(s)," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements:
 
4
 
 adverse changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel services as a result of, among other things, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic disease;
 adverse changes in the Company's relationships with airlines and other product and  service providers which could include, without limitation, the withdrawal of suppliers from the priceline.com system (either priceline.com's "retail" or "opaque" services, or both);
 the loss or reduction of global distribution fees;
 the bankruptcy or insolvency of another major domestic airline;
 the effects of increased competition;
 systems-related failures and/or security breaches, including without limitation, any security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer information, or the failure to comply with various state laws applicable to the company's obligations in the event of such a breach;
 difficulties integrating recent acquisitions, such as Active Hotels Ltd. and Bookings B.V., including ensuring the effectiveness of the design and operation of internal controls and disclosure controls of acquired businesses;
 a change by a major search engine to its search engine algorithms that negatively affects the search engine ranking of the company or its 3
rd
 party distribution partners;
 legal and regulatory risks; and
 the ability to attract and retain qualified
personnel
.
For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Unless required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Pro forma gross profit, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share are "non-GAAP financial measures," as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  Priceline.com believes that pro forma gross profit, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring income or expense items are useful for investors to evaluate priceline.com's future on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of priceline.com's projected cash earnings and performance with its historical results from prior periods.  Pro forma financial information is adjusted for the following items:
                 
Amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles is excluded from pro forma gross profit and pro forma net income because it does not impact cash earnings.
 
5
                 
Stock-based compensation expense and the non-cash expense associated with the payment of preferred stock dividends are excluded from pro forma net income because they do not impact cash earnings and are reflected in earnings per share through increased share counts.
                 
Option payroll tax expense often shows volatility unrelated to operating results since the expense is driven primarily by stock option exercise activity and the market price of priceline.com's common stock.
                 
The restructuring charge, net and the impact of the favorable resolution of certain Federal transportation tax and state franchise tax issues are excluded because they can impact comparability of earnings with historical results from prior periods.
Income tax (expense) benefit is adjusted for the tax impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above and to exclude tax expense recorded where no actual tax payments are owed because of available net operating loss carryforwards.  In addition, the non-cash U.S. income tax benefit resulting from the release of a portion of priceline's deferred tax valuation allowance in 3 quarter 2006 and 3 quarter 2005 is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings. The $3.0 million income tax benefit recorded in the 4th quarter of 2006 resulting from the impact on deferred taxes of a reduction in the Netherlands' statutory tax rate is excluded from pro forma earnings because it could impact comparability of earnings with historical results from prior periods.
                 
rd
rd
                 
Minority interest is adjusted for the impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above.
                 
Equity in income (loss) of investees and minority interests is adjusted to exclude the impairment charge related to the investment in pricelinemortgage.com because it is a non-cash charge and it can impact comparability of earnings with historical results from prior periods.
                 
Finally, for calculating pro forma net income per share:
                 
net income is adjusted for the impact of the pro forma adjustments described above
the impact of EITF 04-08 (""), which requires that priceline.com use the "if-converted" method of accounting for convertible debt instruments when calculating earnings per share, has been excluded because the common stock that underlie priceline.com's 1% Convertible Senior Notes and priceline.com's 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes are generally not issuable unless our common stock trades at prices of $44.00 per share and $45.54 per share, respectively.  On November 10, 2006 (the "Exchange Date"), the Company completed an exchange offer for all of its existing 1% Notes and substantially all of its existing 2.25% Notes, whereby the Company exchanged $1,000 principal amount of new 2006 1.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2010 for each $1,000 principal amount of the existing 1% Notes, and $1,000 principal amount of new 2006 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 for each $1,000 principal amount of the existing 2.25% Notes. The new notes are substantially the same as the existing notes except that the new notes have a net share settlement feature requiring the Company to settle the principal amount of the debt for cash upon conversion and cash or shares of the Company's common stock or a combination
                 
Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share
 
6
of cash and shares of the Company's common stock for the conversion premium.  As result of the exchange, there is no material difference between the impact that EITF 04-08 has on GAAP net income per share as compared to the method that was used to calculate pro forma net income per diluted share prior to the exchange.  Accordingly, for periods subsequent to the Exchange Date, EITF 04-08 is applied for both GAAP and pro forma net income per share.
                       
                 
The Company entered into hedge transactions (the "Conversion Spread Hedges") that increase the effective conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011 and the Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013 from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge when shares are delivered.  The company uses the effective conversion price of $50.47 per share in its calculation of pro forma net income per share because, as a result of the Conversion Spread Hedges, the Convertible Senior Notes will not cause any actual economic dilution to either the Company's outstanding diluted shares or its net income per share unless and until the Company's common stock trades above the effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.
                 
All common stock warrants and shares of restricted common stock are included in the calculation of pro forma net income per share because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude our preferred stock dividend and stock-based compensation expense.
The presentation of this financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  The attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
7
 
8
 
 
9
 
 
 
(1) Net income amounts used to calculate GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted to add back interest expense on convertible senior notes and preferred stock dividend in periods where the underlying shares are included in GAAP weighted average number of diluted common shares outstanding
 
(a)
                          
Favorable federal transportation tax determination is recorded in Revenue
(b)
                          
Amortization of acquired intangible assets is recorded in Cost of revenues and Depreciation and amortization
(c)
                          
Stock-based compensation is recorded in Personnel expense
(d)
                          
Favorable state franchise tax determination and option payroll taxes are recorded in General and administrative  expense
(e)
                          
Restructuring charge and Preferred stock dividend are recorded in those respective expense line items
(f)
                           
Non-cash income taxes are recorded in Income tax benefit (expense)
(g)
                          
Impairment charge related to equity investment in pricelinemortgage.com and the impact on minority interests of other pro forma adjustments are recorded in Equity in income (loss) of investees and minority interests
 
10
 
Gross Bookings represent the total dollar value of travel booked, inclusive of taxes and fees. All figures reflect results from Booking.com B.V. since acquisition.
11


