FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20080521161937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
Item 7.01.             Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On May 21, 2008, at approximately 7:50 p.m. (Eastern Time), Jeffery H. Boyd, priceline.com Incorporated's President and Chief Executive Officer, will be presenting at the Goldman Sachs Ninth Annual Global Internet Conference to be held at The Bellagio in Las Vegas, Nevada.  Mr. Boyd's powerpoint presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  Attached as Exhibit 99.2 is a reconciliation of pro forma information included in Mr. Boyd's presentation to priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
 
The information in the attached presentation contains forward-looking statements relating to priceline.com's performance during 2008.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.  All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to priceline.com on the date this report was submitted.  Priceline.com undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect priceline.com's operating results is included in priceline.com's recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including priceline.com's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and priceline.com's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 2008.
 
The information in this Item 7.01 (including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto) shall not be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01.             Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  May 21, 2008

 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Pro forma gross profit and pro forma net income per share are "non-GAAP financial measures," as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  Priceline.com believes that pro forma gross profit and pro forma net income per share that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring income or expense items are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate priceline.com's future on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of priceline.com's projected cash earnings and performance with its historical results from prior periods. These pro forma metrics, in particular pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share, are not intended to represent funds available for priceline.com's discretionary use and are not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for operating income, net income, net income per share or cash flows from operations data as measured under GAAP.  The items excluded from these pro forma metrics, but included in the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of consolidated statements of income and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance. Pro forma financial information is adjusted for the following items:
 
                 
Cash expenses incurred in 1 quarter 2007 associated with the settlement of the 2000 securities litigation is excluded because of the non-recurring nature of the settlement.
st
 
                 
Cash benefit recorded in 1 quarter 2007 associated with the refund by the Internal Revenue Service of excise taxes paid on merchant airline tickets is excluded because of its non-recurring nature.
st
 
                 
Amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings.
 
                 
Stock-based compensation expense, warrant charges and the non-cash expense associated with the payment of preferred stock dividends are excluded because they do not impact cash earnings and are reflected in earnings per share through increased share count.
 
                 
Option payroll tax expense is excluded because the expense is driven primarily by stock option exercise activity and the market price of priceline.com's common stock and often shows volatility unrelated to operating results.
 
                 
Income tax expense is adjusted for the tax impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above and to exclude tax expense or benefit recorded where no actual tax payments are owed because of available net operating loss carry forwards.
 
                 
Minority interest is adjusted for the impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above.
 
                 
Impairment charges are excluded because they are non-cash charges and can impact comparability of earnings with historical results from prior periods
 
                 
Finally, for calculating pro forma net income per share:
 
                 
net income is adjusted for the impact of the pro forma adjustments described above
 
 
 
 
 
                 
fully diluted share count is adjusted to include the anti-dilutive impact of "Conversion Spread Hedges" related to priceline.com's convertible securities that increase the effective conversion price of the 0.50% convertible notes due 2011 and 0.75% convertible notes due 2013 from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge when shares are delivered.
 
                 
All common stock warrants and unvested shares of restricted common stock, restricted stock units and performance share units are included in the calculation of pro forma net income per share because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude our preferred stock dividend and stock-based compensation expense.
 
The presentation of this financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  The attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO PRO FORMA GROSS PROFIT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


