FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20080916090414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Item 7.01.      Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On September 16, 2008, at approximately 10:00 a.m. (Pacific Time), Jeffery H. Boyd, priceline.com Incorporated's President and Chief Executive Officer, will be presenting at the Bank of America 38 Annual Investment Conference to be held at The Ritz-Carlton Hotel in San Francisco, California.  Mr. Boyd's powerpoint presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  Attached as Exhibit 99.2 is a reconciliation of pro forma information included in Mr. Boyd's presentation to priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.  Attached as Exhibit 99.3 is a press release with information to access Mr. Boyd's live presentation or a replay.
th
 
The information in the attached presentation may contain forward-looking statements relating to priceline.com's performance during 2008.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.  All forward-looking statements are based upon information available to priceline.com on the date this report was submitted.  Priceline.com undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect priceline.com's operating results is included in priceline.com's recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including priceline.com's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and priceline.com's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 7, 2008.
 
The information in this Item 7.01 (including Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 hereto) shall not be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01.              Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  September 16, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Pro forma gross profit and pro forma net income per share are "non-GAAP financial measures," as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Priceline.com believes that pro forma gross profit and pro forma net income per share that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring income or expense items are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate priceline.com's future on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of priceline.com's projected cash earnings and performance with its historical results from prior periods. These pro forma metrics are not intended to represent funds available for priceline.com's discretionary use and are not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for operating income, net income or cash flows from operations data as measured under GAAP. The items excluded from these pro forma metrics, but included in the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of consolidated statements of income and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance. Pro forma financial information is adjusted for the following items:
 
  Cash expenses incurred in 1st quarter and 2nd quarter 2007 associated with the settlement of the 2000 securities litigation is excluded because of the non-recurring nature of the settlement.
 
  Cash benefit recorded in 1st and 2nd quarter 2007 associated with the refund by the Internal Revenue Service of excise taxes paid on merchant airline tickets is excluded because of its non-recurring nature.
 
  Amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings.
 
  Stock-based compensation expense and the non-cash expense associated with the payment of preferred stock dividends are excluded because they do not impact cash earnings and are reflected in earnings per share through increased share count.
 
  Payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation is excluded because the expense is driven primarily by stock option exercise and share award vesting activity and the market price of priceline.com's common stock and often shows volatility unrelated to operating results.
 
  Income tax expense is adjusted for the tax impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above and to exclude tax expense or benefit recorded where no actual tax payments are owed becaus e of available net operating loss carry forwards.
 
  Minority interest is adjusted for the impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above.
 
  Finally, for calculating pro forma net income per share:
 
                 
net income is adjusted for the impact of the pro forma adjustments described above
 
                 
fully diluted share count is adjusted to include the anti-dilutive impact of "Conversion Spr ead Hedges" related to priceline.com's convertible securities that increase the effective
 
conversion price of the 0.50% convertible notes due 2011 and 0.75% convertible notes due 2013 from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share. Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge when shares are delivered.
 
                 
All common stock warrants and unvested shares of restr icted common stock, restricted stock units and performance share units are included in the calculation of pro forma net income per share because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude our preferred stock dividend and stock-based compensation expense.
 
The presentation of this financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Priceline.com President And CEO Jeffery H. Boyd
To Speak At Bank of America 38 Annual Investment Conference
th
 
     NORWALK, Conn., September 16, 2008 . . . Priceline.com (Nasdaq: PCLN) President and Chief Executive Officer Jeffery H. Boyd will speak today at the Bank of America 38 Annual Investment Conference in San Francisco at 10:00 a.m. PT.   A copy of Mr. Boyd's Powerpoint presentation will be made available in the Presentations section of the Investor Relations section of the priceline.com Web site http://www.priceline.com.
th
 
To access his live presentation or a replay, visit:
http://www.veracast.com/webcasts/bas/38th-annual-2008/id45206306.cfm
Replays will be available through October 3, 2008.
 
About Priceline.com Incorporated
 
Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) www.priceline.com provides online travel services in 21 languages in over 60 countries in Europe, North America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.  Priceline.com operates Booking.com, a leading international online hotel reservation service, priceline.com, a leading U.S. online travel service for value-conscious leisure travelers, and Agoda.com, an Asian online hotel reservation service.
 
Priceline.com believes that Booking.com is Europe's largest and fastest growing hotel reservation service, with a network of affiliated Web sites.  Booking.com operates in over 65 countries in 18 languages and offers its customers access to over 52,000 participating hotels worldwide.
 
In the U.S., priceline.com gives customers more ways to save on their airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, vacation packages and cruises than any other Internet travel service.  In addition to getting great published prices, leisure travelers can narrow their searches using priceline.com's TripFilter advanced search technology, customize their search activity through priceline.com's Inside Track features, create packages to save even more money, and take advantage of priceline.com's famous Name Your Own Price service, which can deliver the lowest prices available.
 
Priceline.com also operates the following travel websites:  Travelweb.com, Lowestfare.com, RentalCars.com and BreezeNet.com.  Priceline.com also has a personal finance service that offers home mortgages, refinancing and home equity loans through an independent licensee.  Priceline.com licenses its business model to independent licensees, including priceline mortgage and certain international licensees.
 
 
Information About Forward-Looking Statements
 
Mr. Boyd's presentation may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "goal," "believe(s)," "intend," "expect(s)," "will," "may," "should," "could," "plan(s)," "anticipate(s)," "estimate(s)," "predict(s)," "potential," "target(s)," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Unless required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
For press information:  Brian Ek 203-299-8167  brian.ek@priceline.com
 


