FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20090605161829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
   
At the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 3, 2009, the stockholders of priceline.com Incorporated (the Company) approved an amendment to the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to enable the holders of at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock to call a special meeting of stockholders.  The amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation became effective upon filing with the Delaware Secretary of State on June 5, 2009.  Additionally, on June 3, 2009, the Companys board of directors approved an amendment, effective June 5, 2009, to the Companys Bylaws to set forth certain procedural requirements for stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders.
Prior to June 5, 2009, the Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation prohibited stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders.
Item 9.01.            Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  June 5, 2009
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
Priceline.com Incorporated (the Corporation), a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify:
FIRST: The seventh paragraph of Article Fifth of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
SECOND: The amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation effected hereby has been proposed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and adopted by the requisite vote of the stockholders of the Corporation in the manner prescribed by Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed in its name on this 3 day of June, 2009.
rd
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
The undersigned, being the duly elected, qualified, and acting Secretary of priceline.com Incorporated (the Corporation), hereby certifies that Section 3 of Article III of the Bylaws of the Company was amended by the Board of Directors, effective June 5, 2009, to read in its entirety as follows:
SECTION 3.SPECIAL MEETINGS. Unless otherwise required by law, special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called as set forth in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended or amended and restated from time to time (the Certificate of Incorporation).  At a special meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
If stockholders holding sufficient shares in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation call a special meeting of stockholders, the request shall:
 
 
 
 
Upon receipt of such a request, the Board of Directors shall determine the date, time and place of such special meeting of stockholders, which must be scheduled to be held on a date that is within ninety (90) days of receipt by the Secretary of the request therefore, and the Secretary of the Corporation shall prepare a proper notice thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereto set my hand on this 3 day of June, 2009.
rd
 
 
 
 
 


