FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20100218130441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12  under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4c  under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
 
On February 17, 2010, priceline.com Incorporated ("priceline.com" or the "company") announced its financial results for the 4
th
 quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2009.  A copy of priceline.com's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009, consolidated statement of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and consolidated statement of cash flows for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 are included in the financial and statistical supplement attached to the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009, consolidated statement of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and consolidated statement of cash flows for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 shall be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 7.01.              Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On
February
17,
2010,
priceline.com
announced
its
financial
results
for
the
4
th
 
quarter
and
year-ended
December
31,
2009.
 
A
copy
of
priceline.com's
press
release
announcing
these
financial
results
is
attached
as
Exhibit
99.1
to
this
Current
Report
on
Form
8-K.
 
The company noted that average daily rates for hotel room night reservations had decreased year-over-year during the 4
th
 quarter 2009 approximately 1% internationally and approximately 7% domestically.  The company noted that its 4
th
 quarter 2009 year-over-year growth rates were favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rates, which were "basically in line" with the company's prior guidance. The company explained that year-over-year hotel room night reservation growth and hotel average daily rates during the 4
th
 quarter 2009 were both better than the company's assumptions used when it gave guidance in conjunction with reporting 3
rd
 quarter 2009 results and helped the company exceed the high-end of its prior range of guidance.
 
The company explained that it had received conversion notices during the 1
st
 quarter 2010 from holders of approximately $98 million principal amount of its outstanding convertible debt, leaving the company with approximately $98 million of outstanding convertible debt.
 
With respect to 1
st
 quarter 2010 guidance, the company announced that it expected consolidated advertising expenses of approximately $118 to $121 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2010 and expected approximately 90% of that amount to be spent "on-line."  Priceline.com estimated that sales and marketing expenses in the 1
st
 quarter 2010 would be between $22 and $25 million.  Priceline.com stated that it estimated that personnel costs, excluding stock-based compensation expense, would be approximately $38 to $40 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2010.  With respect to 1
st
 quarter 2010, priceline.com stated it estimated that general and administrative expenses would be approximately $16 to $18 million, information technology expenses would be approximately $6 million, and depreciation and amortization expenses, excluding acquisition related amortization, would be approximately $4.5 million.  Priceline.com said it expected expenses of approximately $0.5 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2010 primarily associated with foreign exchange hedging expense and net interest expense.  Priceline.com estimated that it would have cash income tax expense of approximately $17 to $20 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2010 comprised of income taxes in Europe and alternative minimum tax in the United States.
 
The company noted that its forecast for the remainder of the 1
st
 quarter 2010 assumed, among other things, that the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange rate would be 1.38 U.S. dollars per Euro, that the British Pound/U.S. Dollar exchange rate would be 1.58 U.S. Dollars per British Pound
and assumed that the year-over-year rate of decline in hotel average daily rates would be "flat" to "slightly improved" as compared to the 4
th
 quarter 2009.  The company noted that its "pro forma" financial guidance was based upon a "pro forma" diluted share count of approximately 51 million shares (which includes a calculation of the assumed economic dilutive impact of the company's outstanding convertible notes and share-based awards, net of the favorable economic impact of the hedges associated with the company's outstanding convertible notes), which is based on the company's February 16, 2010 closing stock price of $211.21 per share.
 
The company emphasized that its 4
th
 quarter 2009 year-over-year growth rates reflected favorable year-over-year comparisons with the 4
th
 quarter 2008, a quarter that was significantly impacted by the economic downturn.  The company emphasized that its year-over-year "comps" would be increasingly more challenging throughout each quarter of 2010.  The company further explained that it had seen a deceleration in sequential unit growth rates year-to-date in the 1st quarter of 2010 both domestically and internationally.  The company noted that it expected that its growth rates in units sold would resume the pattern of deceleration in future quarters that the company began to experience before the onset of the worldwide recession.
 
The company noted that its guidance assumes that macro-economic conditions in general and conditions in the consumer travel market in particular, remain relatively unchanged.
 
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "goal," "believe(s)," "intend," "expect(s)," "will," "may," "should," "could," "plan(s)," "anticipate(s)," "estimate(s)," "predict(s)," "potential," "target(s)," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  For a detailed discussion of the factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Unless required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NORWALK, Conn., Feb. 17 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) today reported its financial results for the 4th quarter and full year 2009. Gross travel bookings for the 4th quarter, which refers to the total dollar value, inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by consumers, were $2.26 billion, an increase of 52.9% over a year ago.
 
Priceline.com had revenues in the 4th quarter of $541.8 million, a 33.4% increase over a year ago. The Company's international operations contributed revenues in the 4th quarter of $222.9 million, a 74.9% increase versus a year ago (approximately 63% on a local currency basis). Priceline.com's gross profit for the 4th quarter was $313.2 million, a 52.7% increase from the prior year. The Company's international operations contributed gross profit in the 4th quarter of $222.1 million, a 75.5% increase versus a year ago (approximately 63% growth on a local currency basis). The Company's operating income in 4th quarter 2009 was $117.9 million, a 141.4% increase from the prior year. Priceline.com had GAAP net income for the 4th quarter of $78.5 million or $1.55 per diluted share, which compares to $34.1 million or $0.75 per diluted share in the same period a year ago.
 
Pro forma EBITDA for the 4th quarter 2009 was $133.2 million, an increase of 75% over the prior year.  Pro forma net income in the 4th quarter was $101.6 million or $1.99 per diluted share, compared to $1.29 per share a year ago. First Call analyst consensus for the 4th quarter 2009 was $1.68 per diluted share. The section below entitled "" provides a definition and information about the use of pro forma financial measures in this press release and the attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
For full-year 2009, priceline.com had revenues of $2.34 billion, a 24.1% increase over 2008. Priceline.com's gross profit for 2009 was $1.26 billion, a 31.9% increase from the prior year. The Company's 2009 operating income was $470.8 million, a 62.7% increase from the prior year.  Priceline.com had GAAP net income for full-year 2009 of $489.5 million or $9.88 per diluted share, which compares to $182.2 million or $3.74 per diluted share in 2008. GAAP net income for 2009 was positively affected by a $183.3 million non-cash tax benefit from reversing a portion of the valuation allowance related to the Company's net operating loss carry forwards. The valuation allowance was reversed to reflect the amount of deferred tax asset that is estimated to be more likely than not to be realized after taking into consideration current operating results and future estimated taxable income  Pro forma EBITDA for 2009 was $547.7 million, an increase of 45.1% over a year ago. Pro forma net income for 2009 was $425.2 million or $8.52 per diluted share, compared to $5.96 per share a year ago.
.
 
"Worldwide gross travel bookings growth accelerated in the 4th quarter due to strong underlying fundamentals, weak results in the prior year period amidst the global recession and improving currency and ADR comparisons," said priceline.com's President and Chief Executive Officer Jeffery H. Boyd.  "Hotel room nights booked grew 59.9% on a global basis, representing share gains for Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com.  Our international business grew gross travel bookings at 81% (69.5% in local currency) as it continued to benefit from geographic expansion, increased hotel supply and consumer shift to online bookings.  Domestic gross bookings grew 20.6% in the quarter and the business seems well positioned to compete in an environment where pricing is more stable and where our competition will soon anniversary the conversion benefit of matching priceline.com's fee cut initiatives."
 
Looking forward, Mr. Boyd said, "Throughout 2010, we intend to maintain our focus on building our global hotel platform and strengthening our brands by adding hotel supply, expanding in attractive geographic markets, pursuing integration opportunities and adding content and innovative functionality.  The business continues to perform well as economic conditions have stabilized; however, we do expect growth rates to decelerate going forward, particularly in the second half, as we begin to compare against periods of relatively stronger business performance."
 
Priceline.com said it was targeting the following for 1st quarter 2010:
 
      Year-over-year increase in total gross travel bookings of approximately 42% - 48%.
      Year-over-year increase in international gross travel bookings of approximately 65% - 73% (an increase of approximately 56% - 64% on a local currency basis).
      Year-over-year increase in domestic gross travel bookings of approximately 10% - 15%.
 
      Year-over-year increase in revenue of approximately 23% - 27%.
      Year-over-year increase in gross profit of approximately 50%.
      Pro forma EBITDA of approximately $97 million to $107 million.
      Pro forma net income of between $1.54 and $1.64 per diluted share.
 
Pro forma guidance for the 1st quarter 2010:
 
      excludes non-cash amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles,
      excludes non-cash stock-based compensation expense,
      excludes non-cash interest expense and gains or losses on debt extinguishment, if any, related to cash settled convertible debt,
      excludes non-cash income tax expense and reflects the impact on income taxes of certain of the pro forma adjustments,
      excludes the impact, if any, of charges or benefits associated with judgments, rulings and/or settlements related to hotel occupancy tax proceedings,
      includes the anti-dilutive impact of the "Conversion Spread Hedges" (see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below) on diluted common shares outstanding related to outstanding convertible notes, and
      includes the dilutive impact of additional shares of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation.
 
In addition, pro forma EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization expense and includes the impact of foreign currency transactions and other expenses.
 
When aggregated, the foregoing adjustments are expected to increase pro forma EBITDA over GAAP net income by approximately $50 million in the 1st quarter 2010.  In addition, the foregoing adjustments are expected to increase pro forma net income over GAAP net income by approximately $25 million in the 1st quarter 2010. On a per share basis, the Company estimates GAAP net income of approximately $1.04 to $1.14 per diluted share for the 1st quarter 2010.
 
Information About Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of the Company's management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information and current foreign currency exchange rates. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "does not currently expect," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements:
 
adverse changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel services as a result of, among other things, decreased consumer spending, general economic downturn, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or adverse weather, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major airline, or the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic disease, such as the recent swine flu outbreak;
 
adverse changes in the Company's relationships with airlines and other product and service providers and vendors which could include, without limitation, the withdrawal of suppliers from the priceline.com system (either priceline.com's "retail" or "opaque" services, or both) and/or the loss or reduction of global distribution fees;
 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and other risks associated with doing business in multiple currencies;
 
the effects of increased competition, including the potential impact of increased pricing competition initiated by other on-line travel agents toward the end of 1st quarter 2009 in the form of reduced booking fees and/or the launch by competitors of an "opaque" travel offering;
 
an adverse outcome in one or more of the hotel occupancy and other tax proceedings in which the Company is involved;
 
a change by a major search engine to its search engine algorithms that negatively affects the search engine ranking of the company or its 3rd party distribution partners;
 
our ability to expand successfully in international markets;
 
the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;
 
difficulties integrating recent or future acquisitions, such as the 4th quarter 2007 acquisition of Agoda, including ensuring the effectiveness of the design and operation of internal controls and disclosure controls of acquired businesses;
 
the occurrence of an external or internal security breach of our systems or other Internet based systems involving personal customer information, credit card information or other sensitive data;
 
systems-related failures and/or security breaches, including without limitation, "denial-of-service" type attacks on our system, any security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer information, or the failure to comply with various state laws applicable to the company's obligations in the event of such a breach; and
 
legal and regulatory risks.
 
For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Pro forma EBITDA represents GAAP net income excluding depreciation and amortization expense, interest income and expense, equity in income and loss of investees, income attributable to noncontrolling interests and income taxes and the pro forma adjustments relating to stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes, gains and losses on debt extinguishment, charges or benefits related to judgments, rulings, or settlements of hotel occupancy tax proceedings and the non-recurring favorable litigation settlement relating to credit card processing costs described below.
 
Pro forma EBITDA, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share are "non-GAAP financial measures," as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Priceline.com believes that pro forma EBITDA, pro forma net income and pro forma net income per share that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring income or expense items are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate priceline.com's future on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of priceline.com's projected cash earnings and performance with its historical results from prior periods. These pro forma metrics, in particular pro forma EBITDA and pro forma net income, are not intended to represent funds available for priceline.com's discretionary use and are not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for operating income, net income or cash flows from operations data as measured under GAAP. The items excluded from these pro forma metrics, but included in the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of consolidated statements of income and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance.
 
Pro forma financial information is adjusted for the following items:
 
      Amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings.
      Cash benefit associated with the favorable resolution of litigation related to credit card processing costs is excluded because of the non-recurring nature of the settlement.
      Charges or benefits related to judgments, rulings, or settlements of hotel occupancy tax proceedings are excluded because the amount and timing of these items are unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and render comparisons with prior periods less meaningful.
      Stock-based compensation expense is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings and is reflected in earnings per share through increased share count.
      Payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation is excluded for 2008 because the expense is driven primarily by stock option exercise and share award vesting activity and the market price of priceline.com's common stock and often shows volatility unrelated to operating results. As of January 1, 2009, we no longer exclude payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation due to its relative insignificance to our consolidated financial statements.
      Interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount and gains or losses on debt extinguishment recorded in 2009, and in 2008 on a retrospective basis, related to cash settled convertible debt are excluded because they are non-cash in nature. In accordance with the related accounting standards, certain debt issuance costs were reclassified to equity and are therefore no longer amortized in GAAP or pro forma earnings (as of January 1, 2009).
      Income tax expense is adjusted for the tax impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above and to exclude tax expense recorded where no actual tax payments are owed because of available net operating loss carry forwards. Income tax expense is also adjusted to exclude the $183.3 million non-cash tax benefit from reversing a portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance primarily in 3rd quarter 2009.
      Net income attributable to non-controlling interests is adjusted for the impact of certain of the pro forma adjustments described above.
      For calculating pro forma net income per share:
      net income is adjusted for the impact of the pro forma adjustments described above.
      fully diluted share count is adjusted to include the anti-dilutive impact of "Conversion Spread Hedges" related to priceline.com's convertible securities that increase the effective conversion price of the currently outstanding 0.50% convertible notes due 2011 and 0.75% convertible notes due 2013 from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge in 2011 and 2013 if and when shares are delivered.
      all unvested shares of restricted common stock, restricted stock units and performance share units are included in the calculation of pro forma net income per share because pro forma net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense.
 
The presentation of this financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles pro forma financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
 
About Priceline.com Incorporated
 
Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) www.priceline.com provides online travel services in 32 languages in over 90 countries in Europe, North America, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. Included in the priceline.com family of companies is Booking.com, a leading international online hotel reservation service, priceline.com, a leading U.S. online travel service for value-conscious leisure travelers, and Agoda.com, an Asian online hotel reservation service. Priceline.com believes that Booking.com is Europe's largest and fastest growing online hotel reservation service. Booking.com operates in 76 countries in 25 languages and offers its customers access to approximately 78,000 participating hotels worldwide.
 
In the U.S., priceline.com gives customers more ways to save on their airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, vacation packages and cruises than any other Internet travel service. In addition to getting great published
 
prices, leisure travelers can narrow their searches using priceline.com's TripFilter advanced search technology, customize their search activity through priceline.com's Inside Track features, create packages to save even more money, and take advantage of priceline.com's famous Name Your Own Price service, which can deliver the lowest prices available. Priceline.com operates the following travel websites: Travelweb.com, Lowestfare.com, RentalCars.com and BreezeNet.com. Priceline.com also licenses its business model to independent licensees.
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP NET INCOME TO PRO FORMA EBITDA
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO PRO FORMA NET INCOME APPLICABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO PRO FORMA NET INCOME APPLICABLE TO COMMON STOCKHOLDERS PER DILUTED COMMON SHARE
 
 
 
priceline.com Incorporated
Statistical Data
In thousands
(Unaudited)
 
 
Gross Bookings represent the total dollar value of travel booked, inclusive of taxes and fees.
** Includes $37.5 million, $32.4 million, $24.2 million, $24.6 million and $13.4 million of Agoda gross bookings in 4Q08, 3Q08, 2Q08, 1Q08 and 4Q07, respectively since acquisition on November 6, 2007.


