FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20110225160830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
 
On February 23, 2011, priceline.com Incorporated ("priceline.com" or the "company") announced its financial results for the 4
th
 quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2010.  A copy of priceline.com's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010, consolidated statement of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and consolidated statement of cash flows for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 are included in the financial and statistical supplement attached to the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010, consolidated statement of operations for the three and twelve months e nded December 31, 2010 and consolidated statement of cash flows for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 shall be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 7.01.              Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On February 23, 2011, priceline.com announced its financial results for the 4
th
 quarter and year-ended December 31, 2010.  A copy of priceline.com's press release announcing these financial results is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The company noted that average daily rates for hotel room night reservations had increased year-over-year during the 4
th
 quarter 2010 approximately 3% internationally and by over 5% domestically.
 
With respect to 1
st
 quarter 2011 guidance, the company announced that it expected consolidated advertising expenses of approximately $185 to $190 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2011 and expected approximately $12 million of that amount to be spent "off-line."  Priceline.com estimated that sales and marketing expenses in the 1
st
 quarter 2011 would be between $32 and $36 million.  Priceline.com stated that it estimated that personnel costs, excluding stock-based compensation expense, would be approxim ately $65 to $69 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2011.  With respect to 1
st
 quarter 2011, priceline.com stated it estimated that general and administrative expenses would be approximately $23 to $26 million, information technology expenses would be approximately $7 million, and depreciation and amortization expenses, excluding acquisition related amortization, would be approximately $5 million.  Priceline.com said it expected expenses of approximately $5.5 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2011 associated with foreign exchange hedging expense, net interest expense and the expense associated with Non-GAAP net income allocated to no n-controlling interests.  Priceline.com estimated that it would have cash income tax expense of approximately $26 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2011 comprised of international income taxes and alternative minimum and state income taxes in the United States.
 
The company explained that its guidance assumed that the company would experience "deleverage" during the 1
st
 quarter 2011 caused by, among other things, expenses associated with foreign exchange transactions and hedges and by on-line advertising expense and personnel expense (excluding stock based compensation) growing during the quarter at a faster rate than gross profit.  The company noted that this variance was principally caused by the timing difference between the recognition of revenue and certain expenses, including on-line advertising expense and operating expenses.
 
The company explained that effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax") and that earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.5% (25% as of 2011).    The company noted that Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February
2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment and that the ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Period").  The company explained that, in this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in over a multi-year period.  The company explained that, in 2011, it expected the impact of the Innovation Box Tax to reduce the company's consolidated income tax rate by approximately one to two percentage points, which was reflected in the company's financial guidance for the 1
st
 quarter 2011.  The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the to tal pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year.  The company estimated that by 2013, "all things being equal," the Innovation Box Tax benefit could reduce the company's consolidated cash income tax rate by up to approximately 5%, depending on the level of earnings.
 
The company noted that its forecast for the remainder of the 1
st
 quarter 2011 assumed, among other things, that the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange rate would be 1.36 U.S. dollars per Euro, that the British Pound/U.S. Dollar exchange rate would be 1.61 U.S. Dollars per British Pound and assumed that the year-over-year rate of increase in hotel average daily rates would be similar to the year-over-year increases experienced in the 4
th
 quarter 2010.  The company noted that its Non-GAAP financial guidance was based upon a Non-GAAP diluted share count of approximately 51.5 million shares (which includes a calculation of the assumed economic dilut ive impact of the company's outstanding convertible notes and share-based awards, net of the favorable economic impact of the hedges associated with the company's outstanding convertible notes), which is based on the company's February 22, 2011 closing stock price of $433.78 per share.
 
The company emphasized that it was highly likely that its year-over-year unit growth rates would sequentially decelerate in future quarters due to the "sheer size of the business" and progressively more difficult "comps" as economic conditions continue to gradually improve.
 
The company noted that its guidance assumes that macro-economic conditions in general and conditions in the consumer travel market in particular, remain relatively unchanged.
 
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "goal," "believe(s)," "intend," "expect(s)," "will," "may," "should," "could," "plan(s)," "anticipate(s)," "estimate(s)," "predict(s)," "potential," "target(s)," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  For a detailed discussion of the factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Unless required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NORWALK, Conn., February 23, 2011 . . . Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) today reported 4
th
 quarter and full-year 2010 financial results for the Priceline Group of Companies. Fourth quarter gross travel bookings for the group, which refers to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by consumers, were $3.26 billion, an increase of 44.2% over a year ago.
 
The Group had revenues in the 4
th
 quarter of $731 million, a 35.0% increase over a year ago. The Group's international operations contributed revenues in the 4
th
 quarter of $374.9 million, a 68.2% increase versus a year ago (approximately 75% on a local currency basis). The Group's gross profit for the 4
th
 quarter was $478.4 million, a 52.8% increase from the prior year. International operations contributed gross profit in the 4
th
 quarter of $374.0 million, a 68.4% increase versus a year ago (approximately 75% growth on a local currency basis). The Group's operating income in the 4
th
 quarter was $189.0 million, a 60.3% increase from the prior year. The Group had GAAP net income
applicable to common shareholders
for the 4
th
 quarter of $135.7 million, or $2.66 per diluted share, which compares to $78.4 million or $1.55 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago.
 
Non-GAAP net income in the 4
th
 quarter was $175.0 million, a 72.2% increase versus the prior year.  Non-GAAP net income was $3.40 per diluted share, compared to $1.99 per diluted share a year ago. First Call analyst consensus for the 4
th
 quarter 2010 was $3.10 per diluted share.  Non-GAAP EBITDA for the 4
th
 quarter 2010 was $222.9 million, an increase of 67.4% over a year ago. The section below entitled "" provides a definition and information about the u se of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and the attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles non-GAAP financial information with the Group's financial results under GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
For full-year 2010, the Group had revenues of $3.08 billion, a 31.9% increase over 2009. International operations contributed full-year revenues of $1.4 billion, a 69.5% increase versus a year ago (approximately 77% on a local currency basis).  Gross profit for the Group in 2010 was $1.9 billion, a 51.4% increase from the prior year. International operations contributed full-year gross profit of $1.4 billion, a 69.7% increase versus the prior year (approximately 77% growth on a local currency basis). The Group's 2010 operating income was $786.8 million, a 67.1% increase from the prior year.  The Group had GAAP net income for full-year 2010 of $527.5 million, or $10.35 per diluted share, which compares to $489.5 million or $9.88 per diluted share in 2009.  Net income for the full-year 2009 was positively affected by a $183.3 million non-cash tax benefit from reversing a portion of the valuation allowance related to the Group's net operating loss carry forwards.
 
Non-GAAP EBITDA for 2010 was $901.4 million, an increase of 64.6% over a year ago. Non-GAAP net income for 2010 was $692.7 million or $13.49 per diluted share, compared to $8.52 per diluted share a year ago. First Call analyst consensus for full-year 2010 was $13.22 per diluted share.
 
"The Group's worldwide hotel business performed well for the 4
th
 quarter and full year 2010," said Jeffery H. Boyd, Priceline President and Chief Executive Officer. "High gross travel
 
bookings growth rates were the result of continued penetration of new markets, like Asia-Pacific and South America, where economic growth and rapid online adoption are tailwinds for the business, and solid growth in core markets in Western Europe and North America.  The Group's air and rental car businesses also performed well under challenging market conditions and TravelJigsaw has made good progress with platform and website enhancements to grow our international rental car business."
 
"Going forward, Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com and TravelJigsaw intend to continue building their brands, extending the reach of the Group's global hotel network and working together to achieve benefits of integration where appropriate," said Mr. Boyd.
 
Priceline.com said it was targeting the following for 1
st
 quarter 2011:
 
                 
Year-over-year increase in total gross travel bookings of approximately 45% - 50%.
                 
Year-over-year increase in international gross travel bookings of approximately 64% - 69% (an increase of approximately 66% - 71% on a local currency basis).
                 
Year-over-year increase in domestic gross travel bookings of approximately 7% to 12%.
                 
Year-over-year increase in revenue of approximately 29% to 34%.
                 
Year-over-year increase in gross profit of approximately 47% to 52%.
                 
Non-GAAP EBITDA of approximately $147 million to $157 million.
                 
Non-GAAP net income of between $2.34 and $2.44 per diluted share.
 
The Company noted that its first quarter guidance reflected sequentially higher levels of top-line growth, and accordingly, higher variable expenses, which should benefit earnings in the second and third quarters when a high proportion of the related stays occur and commission revenue is recognized.
 
Non-GAAP guidance for the 1
st
 quarter 2011:
 
                 
excludes non-cash amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles,
                 
excludes non-cash stock-based compensation expense,
                 
excludes non-cash interest expense and gains or losses on early debt extinguishment, if any, related to cash settled convertible debt,
                 
excludes the impact, if any, of charges or benefits associated with judgments, rulings and/or settlements related to hotel occupancy tax proceedings,
                 
excludes non-cash income tax expense and reflects the impact on income taxes of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments,
                 
includes the additional impact of the non-GAAP adjustments described above on net income attributable to noncontrolling interests,
                 
includes the anti-dilutive impact of the "Conversion Spread Hedges" (see "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below) on diluted common shares outstanding related to outstanding convertible notes, and
                 
includes the dilutive impact of additional shares of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units because non-GAAP net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation.
 
In addition, non-GAAP EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, interest expense, equity in income and loss of investees, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, income taxes and includes the impact of foreign currency transactions and other expenses.
When aggregated, the non-GAAP adjustments are expected to increase non-GAAP EBITDA over GAAP net income by approximately $68 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2011.  In addition, the non-GAAP adjustments are expected to increase non-GAAP net income over GAAP net income by approximately $35 million in the 1
st
 quarter 2011. On a per share basis, the Group estimates GAAP net income of approximately $1.66 to $1.76 per diluted share for the 1
st
 quarter 2011.
 
Information About Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of the Group's management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information and current foreign currency exchange rates. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "does not currently expect," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes, 48; "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause the Group's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements:
 
adverse changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel services as a result of, among other things, decreased consumer spending, general economic downturn, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or adverse weather, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major airline, or the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic disease, such as the recent swine flu outbreak;
 
adverse changes in the Group's relationships with airlines and other product and service providers and vendors which could include, without limitation, the withdrawal of suppliers from the Group's systems (either "retail" or "opaque" services, or both) and/or the loss or reduction of global distribution fees;
 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and other risks associated with doing business in multiple currencies;
 
the effects of increased competition, including the potential impact of increased pricing competition initiated by other on-line travel agents in the form of reduced booking fees and/or the launch by competitors of an "opaque" travel offering and the potential impact of "metasearch" initiatives by Google and other search engines upon which we rely for a significant amount of traffic;
 
an adverse outcome in one or more of the hotel occupancy and other tax proceedings in which priceline.com is involved;
 
a change by a major search engine to its search engine algorithms that negatively affects the search engine ranking of the company or its 3
rd
 party distribution partners;
 
our ability to expand successfully in international markets;
 
the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;
 
difficulties integrating recent or future acquisitions, such as the 2
nd
 quarter 2010 acquisition of TravelJigsaw, including ensuring the effectiveness of the design and operation of internal controls and disclosure controls of acquired businesses;
 
the occurrence of an external or internal security breach of our systems or other Internet based systems involving personal customer information, credit card information or other sensitive data;
 
systems-related failures and/or security breaches, including without limitation, "denial-of-service" type attacks on our system, any security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer information, or the failure to comply with various state laws applicable to the company's obligations in the event of such a breach; and
 
legal and regulatory risks.
 
For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Group's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Group's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless required by law, the Group undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Non-GAAP EBITDA represents GAAP net income excluding depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, interest expense, equity in income and loss of investees, net income and loss attributable to noncontrolling interests, income taxes and is adjusted for the non-GAAP adjustments relating to stock-based compensation expense, gains and losses on early debt extinguishment and charges or benefits related to judgments, rulings, or settlements of hotel occupancy tax proceedings.  Additionally, favorable adjustments to franchise tax and sales and use tax
and the favorable litigation settlement relating to credit card processing costs
recorded in GAAP net income have been excluded from Non-GAAP EBITDA and Non-GAAP net income.
 
Non-GAAP EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are "non-GAAP financial measures," as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The Group believes that non-GAAP EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring income or expense items are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate the Group's future on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of the Group's projected cash earnings and performance with its historical results from prior periods and to those of its competitors. These non-GAAP metrics, in particular non-GAAP EBITDA and non-GAAP net income, are not intended to represent funds
 
available for priceline.com's discretionary use and are not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for operating income, net income or cash flows from operations data as measured under GAAP. The items excluded from these non-GAAP metrics, but included in the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of consolidated statements of income and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance.
 
Non-GAAP financial information is adjusted for the following items:
 
                 
Amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings.
                 
Charges or benefits related to judgments, rulings, or settlements of hotel occupancy tax proceedings and favorable adjustments related to certain franchise and sales tax issues for our headquarters location are excluded because the amount and timing of these items are unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and render comparisons with prior periods less meaningful.
                 
Cash benefit associated with the favorable settlement of litigation related to credit card processing costs is excluded because the amount and timing of this item is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and render comparisons with prior periods less meaningful.
                 
Stock-based compensation expense is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings and is reflected in earnings per share through increased share count.
                 
Interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount and gains or losses on early debt extinguishment related to convertible debt are excluded because they are non-cash in nature.
                 
Income tax expense is adjusted for the tax impact of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments described above and to exclude tax expense recorded where no actual tax payments are owed because of available net operating loss carry forwards.  Income tax expense for the full year 2009 was adjusted to exclude a $183.3 million non-cash tax benefit from reversing a portion of the valuation allowance related to the Group's net operating loss carry forwards.
                 
Net income and loss attributable to non-controlling interest is adjusted for the impact of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments described above
                 
For calculating non-GAAP net income per share:
                 
net income is adjusted for the impact of the non-GAAP adjustments described above.
                 
fully diluted share count is adjusted to include the anti-dilutive impact of "Conversion Spread Hedges" which increases the effective conversion price of the currently outstanding 0.50% convertible notes due 2011 and 0.75% convertible notes due 2013 from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge in 2011 and 2013 if and when shares are delivered.
                 
all unvested shares of restricted common stock, restricted stock units and performance share units are included in the calculation of non-GAAP  net income per share because non-GAAP  net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense.
 
The presentation of this financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles non-GAAP financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
 
About The Priceline Group of Companies
The Priceline Group of Companies (Nasdaq: PCLN) is a leader in global online hotel reservations, with over 150,000 participating hotels worldwide and 92.8 million room nights booked in 2010.  The Group is composed of four primary brands  Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com and TravelJigsaw. The Priceline Group provides online travel services in Europe, North America, South America, the Asia-Pacific region, the Middle East and Africa.
 
Based in Amsterdam, Booking.com is a leading international online hotel reservation service operating in 99 countries in 41 languages.  Booking.com offers its customers access to over 120,000 participating hotels worldwide.
 
In the U.S., priceline.com gives leisure travelers multiple ways to save on their airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, vacation packages and cruises. In addition to getting compelling published prices, travelers can take advantage of priceline.com's famous Name Your Own Price service, which can deliver the lowest prices available. Priceline.com also operates the following travel websites: Travelweb.com, Lowestfare.com, RentalCars.com and BreezeNet.com.
 
Singapore-based Agoda.com is an Asian online hotel reservation service that offers hotel rooms around the world and is available in 32 languages.  With headquarters in Manchester, UK, TravelJigsaw is a multinational car hire service, offering its reservation services in more than 4,000 locations in 115 countries.  Customer support is provided in 20 languages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
         
Amortization of acquired intangible assets is recorded in Merchant revenues and Depreciation and amortization.
(b)
         
Cash benefit associated with the favorable resolution of litigation related to credit card processing costs is excluded because of the nonrecurring nature of the settlement.
(c)
         
Stock-based compensation is recorded in Personnel expense.
(d)
         
Favorable adjustments related to franchise tax and sales and use tax for headquarters location are recorded in General and administrative expense.
(e)
         
Charges related to South Carolina hotel margin tax ruling in fourth quarter 2010 and Texas hotel margin tax litigation judgment in 3rd quarter 2009 are recorded in General and administrative expense.
(f)
           
Depreciation and amortization are excluded from Net income to calculate non-GAAP EBITDA.
(g)
        
Interest income and Interest expense are excluded from Net income to calculate non-GAAP EBITDA.
(h)
        
Non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount and loss on early debt extinguishment are recorded in Interest expense and Foreign currency transactions and other, respectively.
(i)
           
Income tax expense (benefit) is excluded from Net income to calculate non-GAAP EBITDA.
(j)
           
Adjustments for the tax impact of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments and to exclude non-cash income taxes (including the non-cash benefit of $183.3 million in 2009 from the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on the Company's deferred tax asset).
(k)
       
Equity in income of investees is excluded from Net income to calculate non-GAAP EBITDA.
(l)
           
Net (loss) income attributable to noncontrolling interests is excluded from Net income to calculate non-GAAP EBITDA.
(m)
     
Impact of other non-GAAP adjustments on Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(n)
        
Reflects the impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges that increase the effective conversion price of the currently outstanding Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011 and the Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013 from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge when shares are delivered.
(o)
         
All shares of restricted common stock, restricted stock units and performance share units are included in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per share because non-GAAP net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense.
 
 
priceline.com Incorporated
Statistical Data
In millions
(Unaudited)
 
 
Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by customers.
 
** Includes $55.0 million, $85.8 million and $43.9 million of Travel Jigsaw gross bookings in 4Q10, 3Q10 and 2Q10 since acquisition on May 18, 2010, respectively.  Includes $37.5 million and $32.4 million of Agoda gross bookings in 4Q08 and 3Q08, respectively.
 
Exhibit 99.1


