FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20111108161530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12  under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4c  under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
 
On November 7, 2011, priceline.com Incorporated ("priceline.com" or the "company") announced its financial results for the 3
rd
 quarter ended September 30, 2011.  A copy of priceline.com's unaudited consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2011, consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 and consolidated statement of cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, are included in the financial and statistical supplement attached to the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.  The unaudited consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2011, consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 and consolidated statement of cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 shall be treated as "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 7.01.              Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On November 7, 2011, priceline.com announced its financial results for the 3
rd
 quarter ended September 30, 2011.  A copy of priceline.com's press release announcing these financial results is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The company noted that average daily rates for hotel room night reservations had increased year-over-year during the 3
rd
 quarter 2011 on a local currency basis by approximately 2% internationally and by approximately 6% domestically.  The company noted that its 3
rd
 quarter 2011 financial results benefited from favorable currency exchange rates as compared to the same period last year  exchange rates for the 3
rd
 quarter 2011 for the Euro and Great British Pound were approximately 9% and 4% higher, respectively, than the average exchange rates for the 3
rd
 quarter 2010.  The company said that Name Your Own Price hotel room nights declined during the 3
rd
 quarter 2011 likely as a result of competitor's initiatives in the opaque hotel arena.
 
The company said that capital expenditures in the 3
rd
 quarter 2011 were approximately $12 million, an increase from $8 million in the 3
rd
 quarter 2010.  The company noted that the increase in capital expenditures was principally for additional IT capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion and that it expected future capital expenditures to also be higher than historical prior year levels as the company continued to support business growth. 
The company further explained that it has no intention of building a single technology platform for its brands around the world.
 
The company noted that its forecast for the remainder of the 4
th
 quarter 2011 assumed, among other things, that the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange rate would be 1.38 U.S. dollars per Euro and that the British Pound/U.S. Dollar exchange rate would be 1.60 U.S. Dollars per British Pound.  The company emphasized that volatility in the Euro Dollar exchange rate could materially impact the company's U.S. denominated earnings.  The company explained that its 4
th
 quarter 2011 guidance assumed that the rate of year-over-year increase in hotel average daily rates for the 4
th
 quarter would be less than the
2% increase that the
company experienced in the 3
rd
 quarter 2011 for its international hotel service and about the same as the
6% increase that the
company experienced in the 3
rd
 quarter 2011for its U.S. hotel service.  The company also noted that it expected non-GAAP operating income to grow at about the same rate as gross profit which it estimated would result in stable non-GAAP operating leverage compared to the 4
th
 quarter of 2010. 
The company further explained that online advertising, as a percent of gross profit, would likely be higher in the 4
th
 quarter 2011 than in the 4
th
 quarter 2010.
 
The company noted that its Non-GAAP financial guidance was based upon a Non-GAAP diluted share count of approximately 51.5 million shares (which includes a calculation of the assumed economic dilutive impact of the company's outstanding convertible notes and share-
 
based awards, which is based on the company's November 4, 2011 closing stock price of $513.37 per share.
 
The company emphasized that it was highly likely that its year-over-year unit growth rates would sequentially decelerate in future quarters due to the "sheer size of the business" and progressively more difficult "comps" as economic conditions continue to gradually improve.  In particular, the company noted that its 4
th
 quarter 2011 guidance reflected actual results to date and assumed deceleration
in the unit growth rate for hotel room night reservations
as the company proceeded through the rest of the 4
th
 quarter.
 
The company noted that its guidance assumes that macro-economic conditions in general and conditions in the consumer travel market in particular, remain relatively unchanged.  The company highlighted that it had seen short-term volatility in its unit growth rates and cancellation rates for its international business, which makes it difficult to forecast trends.  The company also noted that if the impact of the flooding in Bangkok, Thailand were to worsen, the company's 4
th
 quarter 2011 forecast could be negatively impacted.
 
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "goal," "believe(s)," "intend," "expect(s)," "will," "may," "should," "could," "plan(s)," "anticipate(s)," "estimate(s)," "predict(s)," "potential," "target(s)," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements.  For a detailed discussion of the factors that could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the company's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Unless required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Item 9.01.           Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  November 8, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
NORWALK, Conn., November 7, 2011. . . Priceline.com Incorporated (Nasdaq: PCLN) today reported 3
rd
 quarter 2011 financial results for the Priceline Group. Third quarter gross travel bookings for the Group, which refers to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by consumers, were $6.3 billion, an increase of 56.2% over a year ago.
 
The Group had revenues in the 3
rd
 quarter of $1.5 billion, a 45.0% increase over a year ago. The Group's international operations contributed revenues in the 3
rd
 quarter of $953 million, a 79% increase versus a year ago (approximately 68% on a local currency basis). The Group's gross profit for the 3
rd
 quarter was $1.1 billion, a 65% increase from the prior year. International operations contributed gross profit in the 3
rd
 quarter of $952 million, an 80% increase versus a year ago (approximately 68% growth on a local currency basis). The Group's operating income in the 3
rd
 quarter was $616.4 million, an 83% increase from the prior year. The Group had GAAP net income applicable to common shareholders for the 3
rd
 quarter of $469.5 million, or $9.17 per diluted share, which compares to $223.0 million or $4.41 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago.
 
Non-GAAP net income in the 3
rd
 quarter was $512.6 million, an 88% increase versus the prior year.  Non-GAAP net income was $9.95 per diluted share, compared to $5.33 per diluted share a year ago. First Call analyst consensus for the 3
rd
 quarter 2011 was $9.30 per diluted share.  Adjusted EBITDA for the 3
rd
 quarter 2011 was $644.5 million, an increase of 78% over a year ago. The section below entitled "" provides a definition and information about the use of non-GAAP financial measures in this press release and the attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles non-GAAP financial information with the Group's financial results under GAAP.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
"The Group's businesses all enjoyed a strong 3
rd
 quarter," said Jeffery H. Boyd, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Priceline Group.  "Our global hotel nights grew by 47% over last year, reflecting moderate deceleration from the 2nd quarter.  We believe our retail hotel businesses at Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com continued to take meaningful share in their respective markets during the quarter, though our Name Your Own Price hotel business is challenged by increasing competition in the discount space."
 
Mr. Boyd, continued, "The 3
rd
 quarter reflected the first full quarter following the anniversary of the acquisition of TravelJigsaw in May of 2010.  Our global rental car days were up 36% compared to last year, and TravelJigsaw days grew well in excess of that.  Priceline.com's airline ticketing business experienced its strongest quarterly growth in the last seven quarters, with ticket sales up 8%."
Looking forward, Mr. Boyd said, "We are pleased with the solid momentum displayed by our brands in the 3rd quarter results and 4th quarter outlook, especially given the sheer size of the business and the uncertain macro-economic environment in which we are operating.  We believe our brands have significant opportunity ahead through innovation and new market penetration and we intend to use our reach and resources to exploit that opportunity to better serve our customers."
 
The Priceline Group said it was targeting the following for 4
th
 quarter 2011:
 
        
Year-over-year increase in total gross travel bookings of approximately 39% - 44%.
        
Year-over-year increase in international gross travel bookings of approximately 50% - 55% (an increase of approximately 49% - 54% on a local currency basis).
        
Year-over-year increase in domestic gross travel bookings of approximately 13%.
        
Year-over-year increase in revenue of approximately 27% to 32%.
        
Year-over-year increase in gross profit of approximately 42% to 47%.
        
Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $310 million to $330 million.
        
Non-GAAP net income of between $4.90 and $5.00 per diluted share.
        
The above targets are based on foreign exchange rates of $1.38 per Euro and $1.60 per British Pound for the remainder of the quarter.
 
The Company noted that its guidance is based on current operating trends and that growing economic uncertainty, including concerns relating to potential sovereign defaults by Greece and other European states, may subject operating results to greater variability in the future.  The Company also noted that its guidance did not assume further deterioration in travel demand for destinations in Thailand, one of its key markets in Asia, which might accompany a worsening in the widespread flooding occurring throughout the country and threatening Bangkok.
 
Non-GAAP guidance for the 4
th
 quarter 2011:
 
        
excludes non-cash amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles,
        
excludes non-cash stock-based employee compensation expense,
        
excludes non-cash interest expense and gains or losses on early debt extinguishment, if any, related to cash settled convertible debt,
        
excludes the impact, if any, of charges or benefits associated with judgments, rulings and/or settlements related to hotel occupancy tax proceedings,
        
excludes non-cash income tax expense and reflects the impact on income taxes of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments,
        
includes the additional impact of the non-GAAP adjustments described above on net income attributable to noncontrolling interests,
        
includes the dilutive impact of additional shares of unvested restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units because non-GAAP net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based employee compensation.
 
In addition to the adjustments above, adjusted EBITDA excludes depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, interest expense, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, income taxes and includes the impact of foreign currency transactions and other expenses.
 
When aggregated, the non-GAAP adjustments are expected to increase adjusted EBITDA over GAAP net income by approximately $105 million in the 4
th
 quarter 2011.  In addition, the non-GAAP adjustments are expected to increase non-GAAP net income over GAAP net income by
approximately $36 million in the 4
th
 quarter 2011. On a per share basis, the Group estimates GAAP net income of approximately $4.23 to $4.33 per diluted share for the 4
th
 quarter 2011.
 
Information About Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of the Group's management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information and current foreign currency exchange rates. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. Expressions of future goals and similar expressions including, without limitation, "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "does not currently expect," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause the Group's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
adverse changes in general market conditions for leisure and other travel services as a result of, among other things, decreased consumer spending, general economic downturn, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or adverse weather, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major supplier, or the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic disease, such as the swine flu outbreak;
 
 
adverse changes in the Group's relationships with suppliers, service providers and vendors which could include, without limitation, the withdrawal of suppliers from the Group's systems (either "retail" or "opaque" services, or both) and/or the loss or reduction of global distribution fees;
 
 
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and other risks associated with doing business in multiple currencies;
 
 
the effects of increased competition, including the potential impact of increased pricing competition initiated by other on-line travel agents in the form of reduced booking fees and/or the launch by competitors of an "opaque" travel offering and the potential impact of "metasearch" initiatives by Google and other search engines upon which we rely for a significant amount of traffic;
 
 
an adverse outcome in one or more of the hotel occupancy and other tax proceedings in which priceline.com is involved;
 
 
a change by a major search engine to its search engine algorithms that negatively affects the search engine ranking of the company or its 3rd party distribution partners;
 
 
our ability to expand successfully in international markets;
 
 
the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;
 
difficulties integrating recent or future acquisitions, such as the 2nd quarter 2010 acquisition of TravelJigsaw, including ensuring the effectiveness of the design and operation of internal controls and disclosure controls of acquired businesses;
 
 
the occurrence of an external or internal security breach of our systems or other Internet based systems involving personal customer information, credit card information or other sensitive data;
 
 
systems-related failures and/or security breaches, including without limitation, "denial-of-service" type attacks on our system, any security breach that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer information, or the failure to comply with various state laws applicable to the company's obligations in the event of such a breach; and
 
 
legal and regulatory risks.
 
For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Group's actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Group's most recent Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless required by law, the Group undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Adjusted EBITDA represents GAAP net income excluding depreciation and amortization expense, interest income, interest expense, net income and loss attributable to noncontrolling interests, income taxes and is adjusted for the non-GAAP adjustments relating to stock-based employee compensation expense, gains and losses on early debt extinguishment and charges or benefits related to judgments, rulings, or settlements of hotel occupancy tax proceedings.  Additionally, favorable adjustments to franchise tax and sales and use tax recorded in third quarter 2010 GAAP net income have been excluded from adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP net income.
 
Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are "non-GAAP financial measures," as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The Group believes that adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share that exclude certain non-cash or non-recurring income or expense items are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate the Group's future on-going performance because they enable a more meaningful comparison of the Group's projected cash earnings and performance with its historical results from prior periods and to those of its competitors. These non-GAAP metrics, in particular adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP operating income, and non-GAAP net income are not intended to represent funds available for the Group's discretionary use and are not intended to represent or to be used as a substitute for operating income, net income or cash flows from operations data as measured under GAAP. The items excluded from these non-GAAP metrics, but included in the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of consolidated statements of income and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of overall financial performance.
Non-GAAP financial information is adjusted for the following items:
 
        
Amortization expense of acquisition-related intangibles is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings.
        
Stock-based employee compensation expense is excluded because it does not impact cash earnings and is reflected in earnings per share through increased share count.
        
Interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount and gains or losses on early debt extinguishment related to convertible debt are excluded because they are non-cash in nature.
        
Charges or benefits related to judgments, rulings, or settlements of hotel occupancy tax proceedings and favorable adjustments related to certain franchise and sales tax issues for our headquarters location are excluded because the amount and timing of these items are unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and render comparisons with prior periods less meaningful.
        
Income tax expense is adjusted for the tax impact of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments described above and to exclude tax expense recorded where no actual tax payments are owed because of available net operating loss carry forwards.  In addition, the benefit related to the reversal of a reserve for unrecognized tax benefits attributable to tax positions taken in 2010 is excluded because the amount and timing of this type of item is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and render comparisons with prior periods less meaningful.
        
Net income and loss attributable to noncontrolling interest is adjusted for the impact of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments described above
        
For calculating non-GAAP net income per share:
  
net income is adjusted for the impact of the non-GAAP adjustments described above.
  
fully diluted share count in 2010 is adjusted to include the anti-dilutive impact of "Conversion Spread Hedges" which increases the effective conversion price of the 0.50% convertible notes due 2011 and 0.75% convertible notes due 2013 outstanding during the period from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until if and when shares are delivered.
  
additional unvested shares of restricted common stock, restricted stock units and performance share units are included in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per share because non-GAAP net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense.
 
The presentation of this financial information should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The attached financial and statistical supplement reconciles non-GAAP financial information with priceline.com's financial results under GAAP.
 
About The Priceline Group
 
The Priceline Group (Nasdaq: PCLN) is a leader in global online hotel reservations, with over 200,000 participating hotels worldwide.  The Group is composed of four primary brands  Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda.com and TravelJigsaw  and several ancillary brands. The Priceline Group provides online travel services in over 150 countries in Europe, North America, South America, the Asia-Pacific region, the Middle East and Africa.
Booking.com is the number one online hotel reservation service in the world, offering over 170,000 hotels (as of November 7, 2011), and is available in 41 languages.  More recent hotel counts are available on the Booking.com website.  Priceline.com gives leisure travelers multiple ways to save on their airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, vacation packages and cruises. In addition to getting compelling published prices, travelers can take advantage of priceline.com's famous Name Your Own Price service, which can deliver the lowest prices available.  Agoda.com is an Asia-based online hotel reservation service that is available in 37 languages.  TravelJigsaw is a multinational car hire service, offering its reservation services in over 4,000 locations.  Customer support is provided in 29 languages.
For Press Information
: Brian Ek  (203) 299-8167  brian.ek@priceline.com
 
For Investor Relations
: Matthew Tynan (203) 299-8487 matthew.tynan@priceline.com
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP OPERATING INCOME TO NON-GAAP OPERATING INCOME
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) TO NON-GAAP OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP NET INCOME TO ADJUSTED EBITDA
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP NET INCOME TO NON-GAAP NET INCOME
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP NET INCOME PER DILUTED COMMON SHARE
 
 
(a)    
Amortization of acquired intangible assets is recorded in Merchant revenues and Depreciation and amortization.
(b)    
Stock-based employee compensation is recorded in Personnel expense.
(c)    
Favorable adjustments related to franchise tax and sales and use tax for headquarters location are recorded in General and administrative expense.
(d)    
Depreciation and amortization are excluded from Net income to calculate Adjusted EBITDA.
(e)    
Interest income and Interest expense are excluded from Net income to calculate Adjusted EBITDA.
(f)     
Non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discount and loss on early debt extinguishment are recorded in Interest expense and Foreign currency transactions and other, respectively.
(g)    
Income tax expense is excluded from Net income to calculate Adjusted EBITDA.
(h)    
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is excluded from Net income to calculate Adjusted EBITDA.
(i)     
Adjustments for the tax impact of certain of the non-GAAP adjustments and to exclude non-cash income taxes.
(j)     
Adjustment to income tax expense to exclude the benefit related to the reversal of a reserve for unrecognized tax benefits attributable to tax positions taken in 2010.
(k)    
Impact of other non-GAAP adjustments on Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
(l)     
Reflects the impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges that increase the effective conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011 and the Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013 outstanding during the period from their stated $40.38 conversion price to an effective conversion price of $50.47 per share.  Under GAAP, the anti-dilutive impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is not reflected on the outstanding diluted share count until the end of the hedge when shares are delivered.
(m)   
Additonal shares of restricted common stock, restricted stock units and performance share units are included in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per share because non-GAAP net income has been adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense.
 
For a more detailed discussion of the adjustments described above, please see the section in our press release entitled "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" which provides a definition and information about the use of non-GAAP financial measures.
 
 
priceline.com Incorporated
Statistical Data
In millions
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by customers.


