FILE:PCLN/PCLN-8K-20110222161403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.03.              Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On February 16, 2011, the Board of Directors of priceline.com
Incorporated (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Company's Bylaws to provide for the election of directors by the affirmative vote of the majority of votes cast at an annual meeting of stockholders in uncontested director elections.
 
Prior to February 16, 2011, the Company's Bylaws provided for the election of directors by the affirmative vote of a plurality of votes cast at an annual meeting in uncontested director elections.  Directors shall continue to be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any annual meeting of stockholders for which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
The undersigned, being the duly elected, qualified, and acting Secretary of priceline.com Incorporated (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies that Sections 1 and 2 of ARTICLE III of the Bylaws of the Company were amended by the Board of Directors, effective February 16, 2011, to read in their entirety as follows:
 
Section 1
.       .      The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than one nor more than 13 members, the exact number of which shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.  Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or in Section 2 of this Article III of these By-Laws, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast at any annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any annual meeting of stockholders for which the Secretary of the Corporation determines that the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected as of the record date for such annual meeting of stockholders.  Each director elect ed at an annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor is duly elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier death, resignation or removal.  Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation.  Directors need not be stockholders.
Number and Election of Directors
 
Section 2
.       .     Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies arising through death, resignation (including in connection with the stockholders failing at any annual meeting of stockholders to elect the number of directors then constituting the whole Board of Directors), removal, an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.
Vacancies
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereto set my hand on this 16
th
  day of February, 2011.
 


