FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20050408113806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 8, 2005, Avon issued a press release announcing that the Chinese Ministry of
Commerce has officially approved Avon Products (China) Co., Ltd. to start direct selling test in Beijing, Tianjin, and Guangdong Province in April. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1
Press Release dated April 8, 2005.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
April 8th, 2005, Beijing
The Chinese Ministry of Commerce and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce has officially approved Avon Products (China) Co., Ltd. to be the first company to test direct selling in Beijing, Tianjin, and Guangdong Province in April.
Andrea Jung, CEO of Avon Products Inc., said:
"We are so excited that we have received the formal approval from the Chinese government. We are extremely honored of this opportunity as it equally shows the government's confidence and trust on Avon as a responsible and reliable direct selling company in China. We will do our part and are committed to deliver the objective and expectation of the government and look forward to direct selling regulation."
SK Kao, President of Avon China rejoined:
"The objective of the test is to help the government find a suitable direct selling model that would fit the needs of the Chinese consumers, promote social stability and help protect consumers against illegal practices knows as Chuan-xiao'. We will keep doing what is right and responsible.
"
Mr. Kao continued:
"The direct selling test is a preparation for a successful implementation of the direct selling legislation. Avon will strictly abide by the direct selling law and regulation when they are issued."
 
Page 1 of 1


