FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20060731070544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 31, 2006, Avon Products, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the second quarter of 2006. The press release included Avon's consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows, and a supplemental schedule that provided additional information regarding Avon's regional results and product category sales, for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2006. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release of Avon Products, Inc. dated July 31, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 31, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
news release
 
 
 
NEW YORK, N.Y., July 31, 2006  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE:AVP) today reported second-quarter 2006 earnings of $.33 per share, compared with 2005 second-quarter earnings of $.69 per share. The company said the 2006 quarter included a negative impact of $49 million pretax, or $.07 per share after taxes, in costs to implement the current phase of its previously announced restructuring program. The 2006 quarter also included a net favorable impact of less than $.01 per share resulting from a $.03-per-share benefit from a tax refund, and $.02 per share of incremental tax costs from repatriation of international earnings. The 2005 quarter included a $.20-per-share benefit primarily from settlements of tax audits.
Avon - 2
Avon said that total revenue was $2.1 billion in the second quarter of 2006, 5% higher year over year (4% higher in local currency). Active Representatives grew 4%. Both of these measures benefited from the company's late-2005 acquisition of its licensee in Colombia. Units decreased 1% year over year. Total sales of Beauty products in the quarter rose 4% in dollars and 3% in local currency.
Operating profit of $225 million decreased 35%, or $119 million, from the 2005 level, and operating margin was 10.8% in the 2006 period, versus 17.3% in the prior-year quarter.
Second-quarter 2006 operating profit included costs of $49 million to implement restructuring initiatives under the company's turnaround plan. These initiatives included an organization realignment and downsizing to reduce organization layers and move management closer to its markets, Representatives and consumers, and the exit of certain unprofitable operations.
In line with its major turnaround initiative to boost brand competitiveness, Avon said it increased advertising in all regions, with the total spend growing 78% in the quarter to over $50 million, supporting the launch of several new products as well as the opening of direct selling in China.
In addition to costs associated with the turnaround plan, the second quarter of 2006 included unfavorable year-over-year increases in provisions for performance-based compensation, reinstatement of a 401(k) matching program and stock-option expensing. The adoption of stock-option expensing, effective January 1, 2006, and design changes to share-based compensation plans related to that adoption, reduced operating profit by $15 million.
Avon - 3
Interest expense in the second quarter 2006 rose significantly year over year due to a higher debt level primarily associated with the company's aggressive share repurchase program in late 2005, as well as higher interest rates.
The quarter's effective tax rate was 30.7% compared with 2005's rate of 3.0%. The lower rate in the 2005 quarter resulted primarily from the aforementioned audit settlements. Net income in the second quarter 2006 was $151 million, compared with $329 million a year ago.
At quarter end, Avon's total debt had increased $100 million from the year-end level, and cash had increased $56 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $289 million through six months of 2006, up $56 million from the prior- year period.
Avon's share repurchases totaled $94 million and $138 million in the second quarter and first half of 2006, respectively. The company continues to repurchase its shares under an existing five-year, $1.0 billion repurchase authorization.
Andrea Jung, chairman and CEO, commented, "This quarter's results reflect the aggressive actions we are taking to return our business to sustainable growth. While we are still in the early days of our turnaround, we are pleased with Avon's progress, and we continue to work diligently on all fronts of our plan, with 2006 being a transition year.
"At this mid-point in the year, we have essentially completed actions to delayer our organization, and are beginning to see early savings from that initiative. When fully realized, we estimate that annualized savings from delayering will approach $200 million, a majority of the more than $300 million total benefit we expect to generate from our restructuring effort," Ms. Jung concluded.
Avon - 4
Second-Quarter Regional Highlights
In the North America region, second-quarter revenue was flat with the prior year on both a dollar and local-currency basis. A larger average order offset a 7% decline in active Representatives in the region. The region has seen Representative ordering activity decrease as fuel prices have escalated over the last two years. Second-quarter units were 5% lower. North America segment operating profit decreased 36%, and operating margin was 9.8%. Operating profit included $9 million in costs to implement restructuring activities and a substantial increase in advertising.
In Latin America, second-quarter revenue grew 17% (13% in local currency) as the region benefited from the Colombia acquisition, which contributed 10 points of revenue growth, and continued strength in Brazil, which more than compensated for continued softness in Mexico. The region's active Representatives rose 13% and units increased 6% in total. The region's operating profit decreased 24%, as it was unfavorably impacted by costs to implement restructuring initiatives of $20 million and a substantial increase in advertising. The region's operating margin was 14.8%.
Second-quarter revenue in Western Europe, Middle East & Africa increased 2% (5% in local currency) largely driven by growth in Turkey. Active Representatives were flat with the prior-year period, and units increased 4% year over year. The region's operating profit decreased 11% year over year, and operating margin was 9.5 %. Operating profit included increased advertising investment as well as ERP implementation costs.
Avon - 5
In Central & Eastern Europe, revenue in the second quarter rose 4% (2% in local currency) and active Representatives grew 7%. Units sold declined 6% versus the year-ago period, mainly due to underperformance in color cosmetics, particularly in Central Europe. The region's revenue growth was primarily driven by double-digit revenue growth in Russia partially offset by revenue declines in certain other countries, principally Poland. The region's operating profit was 11% lower, and operating margin was 24.6%. Operating profit was unfavorably impacted by higher product costs and increased advertising.
Asia Pacific revenue was 10% lower in the quarter (8% lower in local currency), active Representatives decreased 14% and units declined 11%, as the region was unfavorably impacted by a continued significant decline in its Japan direct-mail business as well as the first-quarter 2006 closing of Indonesian operations. The region's operating profit was 63% lower year over year, largely due to the lower revenue and $10 million in costs to implement restructuring, primarily in Japan. Operating margin was 6.2%.
Revenue in China grew 8% (5% in local currency) including the commencement of direct selling as well as the unfavorable impact of the exit of company-run beauty counters. Units were 4% lower year over year in the second quarter. As announced earlier this month, Avon ended the quarter with over 114,000 certified Sales Promoters registered with the Chinese government, and more than 31,000 applicants currently in the process of being certified under the direct-selling license received by Avon in March of this year. China had an operating loss of $4 million in the second quarter, versus an operating loss of $1 million in 2005's second quarter, due to increased advertising expenses associated with the launch of direct selling and $2 million in costs to implement restructuring initiatives. Operating margin was (9.0)%.
Avon - 6
In addition to the variances noted earlier, year-over-year increases in global expense allocations negatively impacted all regions in the second quarter of 2006. Global expenses, net of allocation to the segments, rose 95%, largely due to $9 million in costs to implement restructuring initiatives, as well as higher compensation-related and option expenses.
Avon will conduct a conference call at 9:00 A.M. today to discuss the quarter's results. The dial-in number for the call is (800) 843-2086 in the U.S. or (706) 643-1815 from non-U.S. locations (conference ID number 2950050). Additionally, the call will be webcast live and can be accessed at for a period of two weeks.
www.avoninvestor.com
Avon, company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with over $8 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in well over 100 countries through over five million independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products, fashion jewelry and apparel, and features such well-recognized brand names as Learn more about Avon and its products at .
the
Avon Color, Anew, Skin-So-Soft, Avon Solutions, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals, Mark, and Avon Wellness.
www.avoncompany.com
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
Statements in this release that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions, or the negative of those expressions, may identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements
 
 
 
Avon - 7
are based on management's reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from management's expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information identifying such factors is contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


