FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20071012093041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 11, 2007, Avon Products, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the authorization for the repurchase of $2 billion of the Company's common stock over a five-year period, following the completion of its current share repurchase program. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of Avon Products, Inc. dated October 11, 2007
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 12, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEW YORK, N.Y., October 11, 2007  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE:AVP) today announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $2 billion of the company's common stock over a five-year period following completion of its current program. Through September 30, 2007, Avon purchased 26 million shares at a total cost of $904 million under the existing program begun in late 2005. Avon has had a share repurchase program since 1994.
Under the new authorization, Avon's annual share purchase volume will depend on the company's operating performance. Repurchases may take place from time to time, depending on market conditions, and the shares may be
Avon-2
 
purchased in open-market or privately negotiated transactions. As of September 30, 2007, the company had approximately 429 million shares outstanding.
Andrea Jung, Avon's chairman and chief executive officer said, "We're very pleased to commit to this new, larger stock repurchase program. Today's announcement is indicative of the long-term health of our business and our ongoing commitment to enhance shareholders' return on their investment in Avon."
Avon, company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with almost $9 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in well over 100 countries through over five million independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products, fashion jewelry and apparel, and features such well-recognized brand names as and . Learn more about Avon and its products at .
the
Avon Color, Anew, Skin-So-Soft, Avon Solutions, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals, Mark,
Avon Wellness
www.avoncompany.com
Statements in this release that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "may," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions, or the negative of those expressions, may identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from management's expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
Avon-3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Avon-4
 
Additional information identifying such factors is contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


