FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20071030072330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 30, 2007, Avon Products, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the third quarter of 2007. The press release included Avon's consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows, and a supplemental schedule that provided additional information regarding Avon's regional results and product category sales, for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2007. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 30, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, N.Y., October 30, 2007  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE:AVP) today reported that third-quarter 2007 total revenue grew 14% year over year (8% in local currency) to $2.3 billion with all six operating regions contributing to the company's revenue growth. Sales of Beauty products rose 16% and Active Representatives increased 10%. Units sold increased 8% versus the prior-year quarter.
Avon-2
 
Net income in the third quarter 2007 was $139 million compared with $86 million in the year-ago quarter. Earnings per share were $.32 versus $.19 per share in the prior-year quarter, representing a 68% increase.
The quarter's results included $96 million in advertising expense, a 44% increase over prior year, to support the launch of new products as well as Representative recruitment advertising in several markets. The 2007 quarter also included an incremental $37 million of costs for initiatives to improve Avon's Representative Value Proposition (RVP), including continued implementation of Avon's multi-level Sales Leadership program, increased incentives and the roll-out of a more frequent, three-week selling cycle in the company's Central & Eastern Europe region.
Andrea Jung, chairman and CEO, commented, "We are pleased with Avon's progress in the third quarter as we continue to implement our turnaround plan. The 14% revenue increase  including the 16% growth in Beauty sales and a 10% advance in Active Representatives  reflects the benefits of significantly increased investments we've made in advertising and the Representative Value Proposition over the last two years. For full-year 2007, we remain on track to our targeted spending of $375 million in advertising and an incremental $100 million in Representative Value Proposition initiatives.
"Looking ahead to 2008, our analytics suggest that we are approaching the right levels of investment spending on advertising and the Representative Value Proposition needed to support long-term sustainable growth. Accordingly, we expect our investments next year will grow roughly in line with sales growth.
Avon-3
 
"This more stabilized level of investment, together with the projected benefits from our major initiatives of restructuring, Product Line Simplification and Strategic Sourcing, and decreased costs to implement those programs, support our expectation of an operating margin in 2008 that approaches 2005's level," Jung said.
In the third quarter, sales of Beauty products recorded another quarter of double-digit growth, with increases in all categories: fragrance up 23%, color cosmetics up 18%, personal care up 18%, and skin care up 5%.
Third-quarter operating profit of $224 million rose 33% from 2006's level of $168 million, while operating margin was 9.5%, versus 8.1% in the prior-year quarter. In addition to investments in advertising and RVP, third-quarter 2007 operating profit included $33 million of costs associated with the company's ongoing restructuring and Product Line Simplification (PLS) programs, including a new restructuring initiative to outsource information technology applications development and maintenance. 2006's third quarter included $16 million of costs to implement restructuring and $40 million of initial costs associated with PLS.
The quarter's effective tax rate of 33.0% was lower than 2006's rate of 41.3%, primarily due to the impact of repatriation of international earnings in 2006.
The company continued to repurchase its shares during the third quarter, buying approximately $148 million of stock, to bring repurchases for the first nine months of 2007 to $558 million. With total program purchases of $904 million under the current $1 billion authorization, Avon's board of directors, earlier this month, authorized a new $2 billion, five-year stock repurchase program to take effect upon completion of the current authorization.
Avon-4
 
At quarter end, Avon's net debt had increased $788 million from the 2006 year-end level. Net cash provided by operating activities was $63 million through nine months of 2007, compared with $439 million of cash provided by operations in the same period of 2006, due primarily to increased payments in 2007 for inventory purchases and incentive-based compensation. The company said that it expects fourth-quarter cash flow provided by operating activities to be substantially higher than in the prior-year period; however, it expects full-year 2007 cash flow provided by operating activities to be somewhat lower than that of full-year 2006.
Third-Quarter Regional Highlights
In the North America region, third-quarter revenue grew 6% over that of the prior year. Active Representatives increased 6% as the company continued to implement initiatives to improve the Representative Value Proposition, and units sold were 10% higher. Operating profit increased 156% versus the 2006 quarter, primarily due to lower inventory obsolescence as well as higher sales, and the region's operating margin was 6.9%.
Avon-5
 
In Latin America, third-quarter revenue rose 21% year over year (13% in local currency), with Brazil being the largest contributor to the region's expansion with revenue growth of over 30%. Revenue in Venezuela and Colombia grew 40% and over 20%, respectively, in the quarter. Mexico continued to progress on its turnaround as Active Representatives increased mid-single digits year over year, and revenue was flat with that of the prior year. The region's Active Representatives grew 11%, and units sold were up 8%. Operating profit increased 14% versus the 2006 quarter as revenue growth and lower obsolescence expense more than offset higher spending on RVP and advertising. Latin America's third-quarter operating margin was 16.8%.
Western Europe, Middle East & Africa achieved revenue growth of 12% (3% in local currency), due to continued strength in Turkey, with revenue up close to 30%, and the U.K., where revenue increased close to 10%. The region's Active Representatives rose 3% and units sold increased 1%, versus the prior-year period. Operating profit improved to $11 million compared with a loss of $28 million in the prior-year quarter, due to a large expense associated with the resolution of a VAT-tax dispute recorded in 2006, and higher sales and lower obsolescence expense in 2007. Third-quarter 2007 operating margin was 3.6%.
Avon-6
 
In Central & Eastern Europe, third-quarter revenue rose 22% (12% in local currency). Russia was the largest contributor to the region's growth, with revenue up 25%. The 2006 results were impacted by the company's inability in the prior-year quarter to ship fragrance orders due to a change in Russia's importation laws. The region's third-quarter 2007 Active Representatives grew 17%, benefiting from one additional sales campaign in the quarter due to a recent move to offer more frequent selling opportunities to Representatives. Units sold during the quarter increased 6%. Operating profit grew 19% year over year, as benefits of higher revenue more than offset higher spending on advertising and RVP, and the operating margin was 20.9%.
Asia-Pacific revenue increased 3% (decreased 2% in local currency), with the Philippines contributing strong revenue growth driven by Sales Leadership. Third-quarter revenue in Japan decreased 9% due to lower sales from direct-mailing programs and flat sales from direct selling, as that market continues to implement its turnaround. The region's Active Representatives were 9% higher and units sold were down 2% as compared with the prior year. Operating profit decreased 41% versus the 2006 quarter, due in part to higher spending on consumer incentives, RVP and advertising. Operating margin in the quarter was 6.0%.
Avon-7
 
Revenue in China grew 23% (17% in local currency) in the third quarter. Active Representatives were up 44% year over year, and units sold were 32% higher. As of the end of September, Avon China had nearly 680,000 certified Sales Promoters. During September, approximately 130,000 of those Sales Promoters fit Avon's definition of an Active Representative, reflecting a program that made it more advantageous for Representatives with small orders to delay their orders until October. As a consequence, the number of Active Representatives for the month of October is expected to be closer to 200,000. This shift in orders has no significant impact on revenue in either the third or fourth quarters. In the third quarter, China had an operating loss of $5 million compared with an operating loss of $3 million in the prior-year quarter due to a continued high level of investment to continue to build direct selling in the market. The region's third-quarter operating margin was (7.9%).
Avon will conduct a conference call at 9:30 A.M. today to discuss the quarter's results. The dial-in number for the call is (800) 843-2086 in the U.S. or (706) 643-1815 from non-U.S. locations (conference ID number: 19636587). The call will be webcast live at www.avoninvestor.com and can be accessed or downloaded from that site for a period of two weeks.
Avon, company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with almost $9 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in well over 100 countries through over five million independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products, fashion jewelry and apparel, and features such well-recognized brand names as and . Learn more about Avon and its products at .
the
Avon Color, Anew, Skin-So-Soft, Avon Solutions, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals, Mark,
Avon Wellness
www.avoncompany.com
Avon-8
 
Statements in this release that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "may," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential," "expectation" and similar expressions, or the negative of those expressions, may identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from management's expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Avon-9
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information identifying such factors is contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 


