FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20070731070914.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 31, 2007, Avon Products, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the second quarter of 2007. The press release included Avon's consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows, and a supplemental schedule that provided additional information regarding Avon's regional results and product category sales, for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2007. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CONTACT:
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, N.Y., July 31, 2007  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE:AVP) today reported that second-quarter 2007 total revenue grew 12% year over year (7% in local currency) to $2.3 billion. Sales of Beauty products rose 14% and Active Representatives increased 9%. Units sold in the quarter increased 7% versus the prior-year quarter.
Avon-2
 
Net income in the second quarter 2007 was $113 million, or $.26 per share, compared with $151 million, or $.33 per share in the year-ago quarter. The 2007 quarter included pretax costs to continue implementation of the company's Product Line Simplification program of $61 million and restructuring program of $21 million, compared with $49 million pretax costs to implement restructuring in the prior year. Additionally, the 2007 quarter included $71 million pretax for incremental funding of advertising and the Representative Value Proposition.
Andrea Jung, chairman and CEO, commented, "We are pleased with our strong performance again this quarter as our turnaround continues to gain traction. We are investing at significant levels in both advertising and the Representative Value Proposition. Clearly these growth investments are paying back, as evidenced by our 14% growth in Beauty sales and 9% growth in Active Representatives. We were particularly pleased that revenue increased over 30% in five of our key growth markets."
Sales of Beauty products recorded double-digit growth for a fourth consecutive quarter, increasing 14% (8% in local currency), powered by growth in all categories: fragrance up 21%, personal care up 19%, color cosmetics up 16% and skin care up 4%.
In the second quarter, the company increased advertising 74%, to $93 million, compared with the same period a year ago. Avon rolled out its "Hello Tomorrow" advertising campaign including: promotion of Avon's flagship cosmetics, specifically, ; and anti-aging skin care products; and Representative recruitment advertising in the U.S.
Avon Color
Ultra Color Rich Lipstick
Anew Retroactive
 
Avon-3
 
In the second quarter, the company also invested $30 million incrementally to enhance the Representative Value Proposition through continued implementation of its Sales Leadership program, increased incentives and web enablement.
"We continue to track toward our planned $100 million of incremental investment in the Representative Value Proposition this year," said Ms. Jung. "Given the success we are seeing in our business, we decided to increase our full-year advertising investment to $375 million, 50% above 2006's level, versus our earlier plan of a 35% increase."
The company said that second-quarter 2007 operating profit of $187 million was 17% lower than 2006's $225 million due to the aforementioned increased investments in advertising and the Representative Value Proposition, as well as costs associated with its Product Line Simplification program. Second-quarter 2007 operating margin was 8.0%, versus 10.8% in the prior-year quarter.
The quarter's effective tax rate of 32.3% was higher than 2006's rate of 30.7%. The 2006 rate benefited primarily from a one-time favorable tax refund.
The company further stepped up the pace of its share repurchases during the second quarter, buying approximately $280 million of stock, to bring repurchases for the first six months of 2007 to $410 million, and total program purchases to $758 million of the current $1 billion authorization.
At quarter end, Avon's net debt had increased $577 million from the year-end level. Net cash used by operations was $1 million through six months of 2007 compared with $289 million of cash provided by operations in the same period of 2006, due primarily to increased payments in 2007 for incentive-based compensation and inventory purchases.
 
Avon-4
 
Second-Quarter Regional Highlights
In the North America region, second-quarter revenue was flat with that of the prior year. Active Representatives increased 4% as the company continued to implement initiatives to improve the Representative Value Proposition. The average size of an order declined versus the prior-year quarter primarily due to last year's strong product innovation in the skin care category. Units sold were flat versus the prior year. Operating profit decreased 32% versus the 2006 quarter, primarily due to inventory obsolescence costs associated with the Product Line Simplification program as well as a sizeable year-over-year increase in advertising expense. The region's operating margin was 6.7%.
In Latin America, second-quarter revenue rose 22% year over year (15% in local currency), with growth in all markets of the region. The markets of Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela each grew revenues over 30%, with Brazil being the largest contributor to the region's expansion. Additionally, Mexico had 3% higher revenue following several quarters of decline. The region's Active Representatives grew 9%, with increases in all markets, and units sold were up 12%. Operating profit increased 18% versus the 2006 quarter, driven by higher sales. Latin America's operating margin was 14.2%.
Western Europe, Middle East & Africa achieved revenue growth of 13% (5% in local currency), due to continued strength in Turkey, where revenue rose over 30%, and the U.K., where revenue increased nearly 10%. The region's Active Representatives rose 8% and units sold increased 1%, versus the prior-year period. Operating profit decreased 41% versus the 2006 quarter, primarily due to inventory obsolescence costs associated with the Product Line Simplification program. Operating margin was 4.9%.
 
Avon-5
 
In Central & Eastern Europe, revenue in the second quarter rose 15% (6% in local currency) on continued strong growth in Russia, where revenue grew in the mid-teens. The region's Active Representatives grew 8%, while units sold increased 6%. Operating profit decreased 35% year over year, primarily due to inventory obsolescence costs associated with the Product Line Simplification program as well as a sizeable year-over-year increase in advertising expense in 2007. Operating margin was 13.8%.
Asia-Pacific revenue increased 3% (decreased 1% in local currency). The company said that Japan's revenue continued to be relatively flat with that of the prior-year period for a second straight quarter. The region's Active Representatives were 3% higher and units sold rose 1%. The Asia-Pacific region's operating profit increased 34% versus the 2006 quarter, primarily due to lower costs to implement restructuring initiatives. Operating margin was 8.0%.
Revenue in China grew 36% (30% in local currency), reflecting continued expansion of the company's direct-selling business. As of the end of June, Avon China had nearly 660,000 certified Sales Promoters, approximately 240,000 of whom fit Avon's definition of an Active Representative. Units sold were 19% higher versus the prior year in the second quarter. China had an operating loss of $2 million compared with an operating loss of $4 million in the prior-year quarter. The region's operating margin was (3.1)%.
Avon will conduct a conference call at 9:00 A.M. today to discuss the quarter's results. The dial-in number for the call is (800) 843-2086 in the U.S. or (706) 643-1815 from non-U.S. locations (conference ID number 6535431). The call will be webcast live at www.avoninvestor.com and can be accessed or downloaded from that site for a period of two weeks.
 
Avon-6
 
Avon, company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with almost $9 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in well over 100 countries through over five million independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products, fashion jewelry and apparel, and features such well-recognized brand names as and . Learn more about Avon and its products at .
the
Avon Color, Anew, Skin-So-Soft, Avon Solutions, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals, Mark,
Avon Wellness
www.avoncompany.com
Statements in this release that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "may," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions, or the negative of those expressions, may identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from management's expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Avon-7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information identifying such factors is contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 


