FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20070501071709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2007, Avon Products, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the first quarter of 2007. The press release included Avon's consolidated statements of income, condensed consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows, and a supplemental schedule that provided additional information regarding Avon's regional results and product category sales, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2007. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 1, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, N.Y., May 1, 2007  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE:AVP) today reported that first-quarter 2007 total revenue grew 9% year over year (6% in local currency) to $2.2 billion with all six operating regions contributing to the company's revenue growth. Net income increased in the first quarter 2007, to $150 million, or $.34 per share, compared with $56 million, or $.12 per share, a year ago.
Avon-2
 
Andrea Jung, chairman and CEO, commented, "We are pleased with the strength and geographic balance of our first-quarter performance. While still in the midst of our multi-year turnaround, we are making good progress against all points of our plan."
Active Representatives rose 4%, and units sold increased 4% versus the prior-year quarter. Sales of Beauty products recorded a third-consecutive quarter of double-digit growth, increasing 10% (7% in local currency), led by personal care up 17%, fragrance up 12%, color cosmetics up 9% and skin care up 6%.
Avon said that in the first quarter the company increased advertising to $71 million, or 80% above the level of a year ago, to fund the launch of "Hello Tomorrow," Avon's first global brand campaign as well as new product introductions such as and
Anew Alternative Intensive Eye Cream
Avon Color Ultra Color Rich Lipstick.
The company also invested approximately $15 million incrementally to enhance the value proposition for its Representatives through continued roll-out of the Sales Leadership program, increased incentives, web enablement and distribution of free sales brochures to Representatives.
"We continue to significantly elevate our investment levels against both our brand and our channel," said Jung, "and we are seeing strong paybacks as a result. Fueling these investments are savings from the many restructuring initiatives that we have undertaken and that continue to be an ongoing part of our turnaround program."
Avon-3
 
First-quarter operating profit of $238 million rose 176%, or $152 million, from the 2006 level. Operating profit in the quarter was unfavorably impacted by approximately $10 million of costs to implement previously announced initiatives under the company's ongoing restructuring program. The 2007 quarter also included approximately $17 million of incremental costs, related to the company's previously announced Product Line Simplification (PLS) program. In 2006, first-quarter operating profit was unfavorably impacted by approximately $120 million of costs to implement the restructuring program, and approximately $20 million of incremental inventory write-offs primarily related to the company's decision to discontinue the sale of certain heavily discounted excess products. Operating margin was 10.9%, versus 4.3% in the prior-year quarter.
The quarter's effective tax rate of 32.4% rose from 2006's rate of 20.3%. The lower 2006 rate resulted primarily from favorable tax audit settlements, which more than offset the adverse impact of restructuring activity on the effective tax rate.
At quarter end, Avon's total debt had increased $308 million from the year-end level, and cash had decreased $77 million. Net cash used by operations was $160 million through three months of 2007 compared with $101 million of cash provided by operations in the same period of 2006. The year-over-year change was due to substantially higher restructuring accruals in 2006; and in 2007, higher incentive-based compensation payments, timing of vendor payments and higher retirementrelated plan contributions. Looking forward, the company expects full-year 2007 cash flow from operations to exceed that of 2006.
The company continued to be active in repurchasing its shares in the first quarter of 2007, with repurchases totaling $130 million.
Avon-4
 
First-Quarter Regional Highlights
In the North America region, first-quarter revenue rose 3% (3% in local currency) from the prior-year period, with growth in all markets. Units sold were 5% higher and Active Representatives were flat with the prior year. Operating profit more than doubled, primarily due to substantial costs to implement restructuring and higher inventory write-offs in the base year. The region's operating margin was 12.2%.
In Latin America, first-quarter revenue grew 7% (6% in local currency). The region's revenue benefited particularly from low-teens growth in Brazil and increases in the range of 20% in both Venezuela and Colombia. These revenue gains offset ongoing softness in Mexico, where revenue decreased 9%. The region's Active Representatives rose 2% and units sold were up 3%. Operating profit increased 29% versus the prior year, primarily due to substantial costs to implement restructuring in the base year. Latin America's operating margin was 13.5%.
Western Europe, Middle East & Africa again achieved solid revenue growth, 17% (9% in local currency), due to continued strength in Turkey, where revenue rose over 30%, and the U.K., where revenue increased in the high teens. The region's Active Representatives rose 5% and units sold increased 11%, versus the prior-year period. Operating profit was $14 million, versus a loss of $34 million in the 2006 quarter, primarily due to substantial costs to implement restructuring in the base year. Operating margin was 5.0%.
Avon-5
 
In Central & Eastern Europe, revenue in the first quarter rose 17% (9% in local currency), aided by continued strong growth in fragrances and color cosmetics, and by Russia, where revenue expanded over 30%. The region's Active Representatives grew 8%, while units sold increased 1%. Operating profit rose 25% year over year, and operating margin was 21.6%. Operating profit in this region benefited somewhat from lower costs to implement restructuring initiatives.
Asia-Pacific revenue increased 5% (2% in local currency) led by high-teens revenue growth in the Philippines. Japan's performance continued to improve with revenue in the quarter approximately flat with that of the prior year. The region's Active Representatives were 2% higher and units sold rose 2%. The Asia-Pacific region had operating profit of $21 million, versus a loss of $2 million in the 2006 quarter, primarily due to substantial costs to implement restructuring initiatives and higher inventory write-offs in the base year. Operating margin was 10.5%.
Revenue in China grew 44% (39% in local currency), reflecting further expansion of the company's direct-selling business, which contributed over one half of the region's revenues in the quarter. As of the end of March, Avon China had over 507,000 licensed Sales Promoters registered with the government, approximately 168,000 of whom fit Avon's definition of an Active Representative. Units sold were 15% higher versus the prior year in the first quarter. China had operating profit of $3 million compared with an operating loss of $1 million in the prior-year quarter, in part due to substantial costs to implement restructuring initiatives in the base year. Operating margin was 4.3%.
Total global expenses decreased 6%, due primarily to substantial restructuring-related expenses in the base year.
Avon-6
 
Avon will conduct a conference call at 10:00 A.M. today to discuss the quarter's results. The dial-in number for the call is (800) 843-2086 in the U.S. or (706) 643-1815 from non-U.S. locations (conference ID number 5046587). The call will be webcast live at www.avoninvestor.com and can be accessed or downloaded from that site for a period of two weeks.
Avon, company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with almost $9 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in well over 100 countries through over five million independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products, fashion jewelry and apparel, and features such well-recognized brand names as Learn more about Avon and its products at
the
Avon Color, Anew, Skin-So-Soft, Avon Solutions, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals, Mark, and Avon Wellness.
www.avoncompany.com
.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
Statements in this release that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "may," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential" and similar expressions, or the negative of those expressions, may identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from management's expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
Avon-7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information identifying such factors is contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


