FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20080826170145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 28, 2006, Avon Products, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Japanese Yen 11.0 billion Loan Agreement with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. ("Lender"), as amended on August 6, 2007 to extend the term of the facility until August 28, 2008 (the "Agreement").
On August 21, 2008, the Company entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement with the Lender (the "Amendment"). The Amendment provides for the extension of the Japanese Yen 11.0 billion uncommitted credit facility until August 28, 2009. All other terms of the Agreement remain unchanged.
The uncommitted facility is available for general corporate purposes, including working capital and the repayment of outstanding indebtedness. Amounts may be borrowed, repaid and reborrowed by the Company from time to time on or prior to August 28, 2009. Voluntary prepayments by the Company under the Agreement are permitted at any time without fee, other than customary break funding costs, upon proper notice. Unless otherwise expressly agreed to by the Company and Lender, borrowings under the Agreement bear interest at the Lender's Yen LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin.
The Agreement includes events of default, which are customary for uncommitted facilities of this type (with customary grace periods, as applicable), including provisions under which, upon the occurrence of an event of default, all outstanding loans under the Agreement may be accelerated. Also under such provisions, upon the occurrence of certain insolvency or bankruptcy related events of default, all amounts payable under the Agreement shall automatically become immediately due and payable.
The Lender provides or has provided a variety of financial services to the Company and its affiliates, including investment banking, cash management, credit facilities and interest rate and foreign exchange derivative arrangements.
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Amendment, and reference is made to the complete text of the Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
The disclosure required by this item is included in Item 1.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 26, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
AVON PRODUCTS, INC.
Midland and Peck Avenue
Rye, New York 10580
 
Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Loan Agreement, dated August 28, 2006, as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1, dated August 6, 2007 (said agreement, as so amended, and as otherwise amended from time to time, is hereinafter referred to as the "Agreement"), between The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (the "Bank"), and Avon Products, Inc. (the "Borrower"). Terms defined in the Agreement are used herein with the same meaning.
The Borrower has requested that the term of the uncommitted credit facility made available pursuant to the Agreement for general corporate purposes be extended for a period of one year, and the Bank hereby agrees to such extension, based upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Amendment No. 2 (this "Amendment").
Accordingly, the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
 
 
 
 
the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
Accepted and agreed to as
of the date first written above:
 
 


