FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20081205172229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 3, 2008, the Board of Directors of Avon Products, Inc. elected V. Ann Hailey to the Board of Directors effective as of December 3, 2008. Ms. Hailey has also been appointed to serve on Avon's Audit Committee.
Ms. Hailey is a retired executive of Limited Brands, Inc. where she served first as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1997 to 2006 and then as Executive Vice President, Corporate Development from 2006 to 2007. She also served on the Limited Brands, Inc. Board of Directors from 2001 to 2006. Prior to joining Limited Brands, Inc. in 1997, Ms. Hailey held management positions at The Pillsbury Company, RJR Nabisco Holdings Inc. and PepsiCo, Inc. Ms. Hailey currently serves on the Board of Directors of W.W. Grainger, Inc., Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and Realogy Corporation.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Ms. Hailey to Avon's Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 5, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CONTACT:
 
NEW YORK, N.Y., December 5, 2008  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE: AVP) announced that, on December 3, 2008, its Board of Directors elected V. Ann Hailey to join its Board. Ms. Hailey has also been appointed to serve on Avon's Audit Committee. Avon's Board now numbers eleven Directors.
Ms. Hailey, 57, is a retired executive of Limited Brands, Inc. where she served first as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1997 to 2006 and then as Executive Vice President, Corporate Development from 2006 to 2007. She also served on the Limited Brands, Inc. Board of Directors from 2001 to 2006. Before joining Limited Brands, Inc. in 1997, Ms. Hailey held management positions at The Pillsbury Company, RJR Nabisco Holdings Inc. and PepsiCo, Inc.
Ms. Hailey currently serves on the Board of Directors of W.W. Grainger, Inc., Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and Realogy Corporation.
"We are very pleased that Ann Hailey has agreed to become a member of Avon's Board of Directors," said Andrea Jung, Avon's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Her extensive financial expertise and corporate strategy experience at prominent consumer product brand-name companies will enable her to make significant contributions to Avon as we continue to grow our business on a global scale."
Ms. Hailey holds an M.B.A from the Harvard Business School and a B.A. in Business Administration from the University of Georgia.
Avon, the company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with over $10 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in more than 100 countries through over 5.5 million independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products, fashion jewelry and apparel, and features such well-recognized brand names as Avon Color, Anew, Skin-So-Soft, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals, and Mark. Learn more about Avon and its products at .
www.avoncompany.com


