FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20090219092859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 17, 2009, the Board of Directors of Avon Products, Inc. (the "Company") approved a new restructuring program under the Company's multi-year turnaround plan, which targets increasing levels of efficiency and organizational effectiveness across the Company's global operations. The new program focuses on initiatives to restructure the Company's global supply chain operations, realign certain local business support functions to a more regional basis to drive increased efficiencies, and streamline transaction-related services, including selective outsourcing. The Company anticipates restructuring charges and other costs to implement these initiatives in the range of $300 to $400 million before taxes over the next several years, with implementation anticipated to begin in the second half of 2009 and to be completed by 2012 - 2013.
At this time, the Company is not able in good faith to make a determination of the estimated amount or range of amounts to be incurred for each major type of cost nor the future cash expenditures associated therewith, as required by this Item 2.05. The Company will file an amendment to this report after it makes a determination of such amounts.
 
On February 19, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its new restructuring program under its multi-year turnaround plan. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 are the materials presented at the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY) conference on February 19, 2009, webcast live on Avon's investor website, www.avoninvestor.com, pursuant to advance notice previously provided in the press release issued by the Company on February 9, 2009.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 19, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, NY, February 19, 2009  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE:AVP) today announced that it now expects to achieve higher-than-anticipated annualized savings and benefits approaching $900 million from its original restructuring program and its product line simplification and strategic sourcing initiatives. The company also announced a new restructuring program targeting annualized savings of approximately $200 million when fully implemented.
 
Avon - 2
Charles Cramb, Avon's Vice Chairman, Chief Finance and Strategy Officer, said, "Our original restructuring program began in 2005, and over the last three years we have been dramatically transforming our cost structure and exceeding our original savings estimates as we fix the fundamentals of our business. Based on this progress, we expect the original restructuring program to deliver total savings of approximately $430 million by 2011-2012. We also expect to realize annualized benefits from our product line simplification and strategic sourcing initiatives in excess of $200 million and $250 million, respectively, in 2010.
"Fueled by this success, we're also announcing that Avon will launch a new restructuring program that will target increasing levels of efficiency and organizational effectiveness across our global operations," Mr. Cramb said. "This reflects both our constant turnaround mentality and our determination to aggressively manage our cost structure as we address the current macro-economic challenges."
Avon said that the new restructuring program will focus on the company's global supply chain operations, realigning certain local business support functions to a more regional basis to drive increased efficiencies, and streamlining transaction-related services, including selective outsourcing. Further details will be announced when initiatives are finalized.
The company also noted that the new restructuring program is targeted to achieve annualized savings of approximately $200 million upon full implementation by 2012-2013. Avon also said that the costs to implement the upcoming initiatives are expected to be in the range of $300-$400 million, with implementation anticipated to start in the second half of 2009.
 
Avon - 3
Avon, company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with over $10 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in more than 100 countries through 5.8 million independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products as well as fashion and home products, and features such well-recognized brand names as andLearn more about Avon and its products at .
the
Avon Color, Anew, Skin-So-Soft, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals,
Mark.
www.avoncompany.com
Statements in this release that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "estimate," "project," "forecast," "plan," "believe," "may," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential," "can," "expectation" and similar expressions, or the negative of those expressions, may identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from management's expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
Avon - 4
 
Additional information identifying such factors is contained in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
 



