FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20110728071544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 28, 2011, Avon Products, Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations for the second quarter of 2011. The press release included Avon's consolidated statements of income, consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows, and supplemental schedules, for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2011. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of Avon Products, Inc. dated July 28, 2011
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 28, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
news release
 
 
CONTACT
Amy Low Chasen
Monica Chang
Ilene Drucker
(212) 282  5320
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, N.Y., July 28, 2011  Avon Products, Inc. (NYSE:AVP) today reported second-quarter 2011 total revenue of $2.9 billion, 9% higher than that of second-quarter 2010. Constant-dollar sales rose 2% in the second quarter as foreign exchange contributed 7% to growth. Total units declined 3% while price/mix rose 5% during the quarter. Active Representatives were flat in the quarter. The acquisition of Silpada Designs, Inc. ("Silpada") contributed 150 basis points to revenue.
"Our first-half 2011 results were in line with our expectations of low-single digit constant-dollar growth and adjusted operating margins flat with a year ago," said
 
Avon -2
 
Andrea Jung, Avon's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We continue to expect mid-single digit revenue growth in the second half of this year, driven by our major global field activation program around our 125
th
anniversary. We also continue to expect significant margin expansion in the second half, resulting from gross margin improvement and revenue leverage."
Avon's Beauty sales increased 8% year over year, or up 1% in constant dollars, in the second quarter. On a reported basis, fragrance and personal care grew 11%, color grew 8%, and skincare grew 3%. On a constant-dollar basis, fragrance and personal care grew 4%, color was flat, and skincare declined 4%.
Second-quarter 2011 gross margin of 64.4% was 100 basis points above that of the prior-year quarter. On an adjusted basis, it declined by 30 basis points as the negative impact of rising product costs was partially offset by pricing benefits and favorable foreign currency.
Selling, general and administrative expense in the quarter was flat as a percent of revenue versus second-quarter 2010 on a reported and adjusted basis as the company effectively managed overhead costs and rebalanced spending between Representative Value Proposition ("RVP") and advertising.
As planned, lower advertising was offset by a higher investment in RVP during the second quarter of 2011. Within this rebalancing, advertising was $82 million for the quarter, down 16% or $15 million from a year ago. Avon invested an incremental $22 million in RVP in the second quarter of 2011 in Sales Leadership and higher incentives.
Second-quarter 2011 costs associated with the company's 2005 and 2009 restructuring programs were $12 million pre-tax, or $0.02 per share after-tax, compared with $10 million pre-tax, or $0.02 per share after-tax in the prior-year period.
 
Avon -3
 
Second-quarter 2011 operating profit of $317 million was up 19% compared with the year-ago quarter, and operating margin was 11.1%, up 100 basis points year over year. Adjusted operating profit was up 6%, and adjusted operating margin was 11.5%, down 30 basis points from a year ago due to the lower gross margin.
Second-quarter 2011's effective tax rate was 28.9%, compared with 33.8% in the year-ago quarter. Excluding the impact from restructuring costs, the second-quarter 2011 rate was 29.1%. Excluding the impact of Venezuelan special items and restructuring costs, the second-quarter 2010 tax rate was 29.9%.
Income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2011 was $209 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, compared with $165 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in the year-ago quarter. Adjusted income from continuing operations was $217 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, compared with $205 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, in the year-ago second quarter.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $88 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011, compared with $232 million in the same period of 2010. Higher net income was more than offset by higher inventory levels, a $75 million contribution to the U.S. pension plan, and a $36 million payment associated with the long-term incentive compensation plan. At quarter end, Avon's net debt was $2.2 billion, up $257 million from the year-end level.
Second-Quarter Regional Results
Latin America's second-quarter 2011 revenue was up 19% year over year, or up 10% in constant dollars, with continued strong growth in most large markets. Brazil was up 17%, or 4% in constant dollars, and continues to make progress towards stabilizing the service environment. Mexico was up 27%, or 18% in constant dollars, primarily
 
Avon -4
 
driven by growth in Active Representatives. Venezuela was up 15% on both a reported and constant-dollar basis. The region's Active Representatives grew 4% and units sold were up 1%. Second-quarter operating profit was up 38%. Operating margin was 14.4%, or up 200 basis points from the second quarter of 2010. On an adjusted basis, Latin America's second-quarter operating profit was up 11% and the operating margin was 14.5%, down 100 basis points from a year ago. The decline in operating margin was driven by higher distribution costs due to the transition to new facilities in Brazil and Colombia, as well as higher bad debt expense.
Second-quarter revenue in North America was down 7% year over year, or down 8% in constant dollars. Active Representatives were down 8%. Units sold declined 16% compared with a year ago. Silpada had a favorable impact of approximately 7 percentage points on second-quarter revenue and 1 percentage point to both Active Representatives and units. North America's second-quarter operating profit was down 31%. Operating margin was 4.9%, down 170 basis points versus last year's quarter. Adjusted operating profit was down 28%, with an adjusted operating margin of 6.5%, down 180 basis points, primarily reflecting fixed overhead costs with lower revenues. Silpada added 120 basis points to North America's adjusted operating margin.
In Central & Eastern Europe, second-quarter revenue was up 5% year over year, or down 3% in constant dollars, reflecting a decline in average order and continued macroeconomic challenges in the region. Russia was up 5% on a reported basis and down 2% in constant dollars, as positive Active Representative growth was more than offset by difficult macroeconomic conditions. The region's Active Representatives were down 1% and units sold were down 2% in the quarter. Operating profit was down 8%
 
Avon -5
 
versus the 2010 quarter. The region's operating margin was 19.6%, down 280 basis points from the prior-year quarter. Second-quarter 2011 adjusted operating profit was down 7%. Adjusted operating margin was 20.1%, down 260 basis points, due to higher distribution costs and an increased investment in RVP.
Western Europe, Middle East & Africa's second-quarter revenue increased 13% versus the prior-year quarter, or up 5% in constant dollars, driven by an increase in Active Representatives. U.K. revenue was up 2%, or down 7% in constant dollars, reflecting declines in both Active Representatives and average order. Turkey rose 1%, or up 3% in constant dollars. South Africa rose 52%, or 38% in constant dollars. The region's Active Representatives grew 8% year over year and units sold increased 3%. Operating profit was down 13% versus the prior-year quarter. Operating margin was 13.0%, down 380 basis points from the prior-year quarter. Second-quarter 2011 adjusted operating profit was down 5% with an adjusted operating margin of 13.7%, down 260 basis points, due to lower gross margin.
Asia Pacific reported a second-quarter revenue decline of 5% year over year, or 12% in constant dollars. Revenues in the Philippines rose 7%, or 2% in constant dollars. China declined 28%, or 31% in constant dollars, reflecting the continued transition away from a hybrid model to one which focuses on direct selling. The region's Active Representatives declined 14% and units sold decreased by 10%, primarily reflecting double-digit declines in both indicators in China. Operating profit was down 9% versus the 2010 quarter. The region's operating margin was 7.3%, down 40 basis points. China reported a modest operating profit compared with a loss for the same period last year. The region's adjusted operating profit was down 7% versus the 2010 quarter with an adjusted operating margin of 7.3%, down 20 basis points from a year ago, due to lower gross margin and fixed overhead costs on lower revenues. This was partially offset by suspended advertising in China during this transition phase.
 
Avon -6
 
Avon will conduct a conference call at 9:00 A.M. today to discuss the quarter results. The dial-in number for the call is (800) 843-2086 in the U.S. or (706) 643-1815 from non-U.S. locations (conference ID number: 79121762). The call and related slide presentation will be webcast live at www.avoninvestor.com and can be accessed or downloaded from that site for a period of one year. Avon will be filing its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 today. Please refer to the Form 10-Q for additional information on Avon's results for the quarter.
Avon, company for women, is a leading global beauty company, with over $10 billion in annual revenue. As the world's largest direct seller, Avon markets to women in more than 100 countries through approximately 6.5 million active independent Avon Sales Representatives. Avon's product line includes beauty products, as well as fashion and home products, and features such well-recognized brand names as and Learn more about Avon and its products at www.avoncompany.com.
the
Avon Color, ANEW, Skin-So-Soft, Advance Techniques, Avon Naturals,
mark.
Footnote
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
To supplement our financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), we disclose operating results that have been adjusted to exclude the impact of changes due to the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. We refer to these adjusted growth rates as Constant $ growth, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe this measure provides investors an additional perspective on trends. To exclude the impact of changes due to the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, we calculate current year results and prior year results at a constant exchange rate. Currency impact is determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates.
 
Avon -7
 
We present gross margin, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue, operating profit, operating margin, income from continuing operations, earnings per share from continuing operations and effective tax rate on a non-GAAP basis. The discussion of our segments presents operating profit and operating margin on a non-GAAP basis. We have provided a quantitative reconciliation of the difference between the non-GAAP financial measure and the financial measure calculated and reported in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The Company uses the non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate its operating performance and believes that it is meaningful for investors to be made aware of, on a period-to-period basis, the impacts of 1) costs to implement ("CTI") restructuring initiatives and 2) costs and charges related to Venezuela being designated as a highly inflationary economy and the subsequent devaluation of its currency ("Venezuelan special items"). The Company believes investors find the non-GAAP information helpful in understanding the ongoing performance of operations separate from items that may have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on the Company's financial results in any particular period. The Venezuelan special items include the impact on the Statement of Income caused by the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency on monetary assets and liabilities, such as cash, receivables and payables; deferred tax assets and liabilities; and nonmonetary assets, such as inventory and prepaid expenses. For nonmonetary assets, the Venezuelan special items include the earnings impact caused by the difference between the historical cost of the assets at the previous official exchange rate of 2.15 and the revised official exchange rate of 4.30.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
Statements in this release that are not historical facts or information are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "estimate," "project," "forecast," "plan," "believe," "may," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "planned," "potential," "can," "expectation" and similar expressions, or the negative of those expressions, may identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on management's reasonable current assumptions and expectations. Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievement of Avon to be materially different from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, and there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from management's expectations. Such factors include, among others, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Avon -8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional information identifying such factors is contained in Item 1A of our 2010 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. We undertake no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This supplemental schedule provides adjusted non-GAAP financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the difference between the non-GAAP financial measure and the financial measure calculated and reported in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 


