FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20110523170848.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On May 23, 2011, Avon Products, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Kimberly A. Ross will join the Company as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. She is expected to join in the fall and, upon the effective date of her appointment, Charles W. Cramb will no longer serve as chief financial officer of the Company but will continue to serve in his capacity as Vice Chairman, Developed Market Group.
Ms. Ross, age 46, has been the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Royal Ahold N.V., an international food retailing group based in the Netherlands ("Ahold"), since November 2007 and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from July to November 2007. Prior to that, Ms. Ross served as Ahold's Senior Vice President and Chief Treasury and Tax Officer from April 2005 to July 2007, Senior Vice President and Group Treasurer from January 2004 to April 2005, Vice President and Group Treasurer from April 2002 to January 2004, and Assistant Treasurer from September 2001 to April 2002. Prior to joining Ahold in September 2001, Ms. Ross held the position of Senior Manager at Ernst & Young Global Limited and Director of Corporate Finance for the Americas at Joseph E. Seagram & Sons Inc. Ms. Ross also held a number of other management positions at Joseph E. Seagram from 1995 through 2001, as well as at Anchor Glass Container Corporation from 1992 to 1995.
Ms. Ross also serves on the Corporate Executive Board of Ahold, appointed by its shareholders in April 2008. She is also a member of the advisory board of the Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University.
The Company and Ms. Ross entered into an employment offer letter agreement dated as of May 20, 2011 (the "Agreement") generally providing for:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Agreement also provides for Ms. Ross' repatriation to the United States and relocation to the New York area pursuant to the company's repatriation and relocation programs. Ms. Ross will be entitled to receive the standard benefits under such programs, including a shipment of goods and one-time relocation allowance (equivalent to approximately one month of base salary), tax preparation services for the first calendar year of relocation, home finding support, reasonable closing cost reimbursement for a home purchase, and a bonus to reimburse her for a portion of mortgage interest expense for the first three years of relocation for a home purchase (or a rental subsidy bonus for a home rental).
Ms. Ross would also be eligible to participate in all of the compensation and benefit programs and policies in which similarly situated executives participate, including medical, dental, life and disability insurance, 401(k) plan, pension plan, severance pay plan, change in control policy, compensation recoupment policy, and transportation and financial planning allowance.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 23, 2011
 


