FILE:AVP/AVP-8K-20121228170506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 21, 2012
777 Third Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10017-1307
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(212) 282-5000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 1.01
    
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 21, 2012, Avon Products, Inc. (the Company), Avon Capital Corporation, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders under the Company's Revolving Credit and Competitive Advance Facility Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2010 (the Credit Agreement), and the administrative agent thereunder, entered into a first amendment (the Amendment) to the Credit Agreement. The Amendment primarily relates to the calculation of the interest coverage ratio under the Credit Agreement and allows the Company, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to add back to its consolidated net income: (i) extraordinary and other non-cash losses and expenses, (ii) one-time fees, cash charges and other cash expenses, premiums or penalties incurred in connection with any asset sale, equity issuance or incurrence or repayment of debt or refinancing or amendment of any debt instrument and (iii) cash charges and other cash expenses, premiums or penalties incurre
d in connection with any restructuring or relating to any legal or regulatory action, settlement, judgment or ruling, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000,000 for the period from October 1, 2012 until the termination of commitments under the Credit Agreement. Certain of the financial institutions that are parties to the Amendment provide financial services to the Company and its affiliates such as investment banking, cash management, bank guarantees and derivative arrangements.
In addition, the Company is in the process of seeking an amendment to the Note Purchase Agreement, dated November 23, 2010 (as amended), to, among other things, modify certain financial definitions relating to the interest coverage ratio covenant contained therein.
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the Amendment and is qualified in its entirety by the complete text of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
(Page 2 of 3 Pages)
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 28, 2012
 
(Page 3 of 3 Pages)
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

EXECUTION COPY
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Dated as of December 21, 2012
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
among AVON PRODUCTS, INC. (
API
), AVON CAPITAL CORPORATION (
ACC
, and together with API, the 
Borrowers
), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below (collectively, the 
Banks
) and CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent (the 
Administrative Agent
) for the Banks.
PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS:
(1)    The Borrowers, the Banks and the Administrative Agent have entered into a Revolving Credit and Competitive Advance Facility Agreement, dated as of November 2, 2010 (the 
Credit Agreement
). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Amendment have the same meanings as specified in the Credit Agreement.
(2)    The Borrowers and the Required Banks have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth.
SECTION 1.
Amendments to Credit Agreement
. The Credit Agreement is, effective as of the date hereof and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 2, hereby amended as follows:
(a)    The definition of 
Interest Coverage Ratio
 in Section 1.01 is amended in full to read as follows:
Interest Coverage Ratio
 shall mean, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBIT to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense, in each case for the period of four fiscal quarters ending on such date.
(b)    Section 1.01 is further amended by adding the following defined terms are added in appropriate alphabetical order:
Consolidated EBIT
 means, for any period, for API and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period plus (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such Consolidated Net Income and without duplication: (i) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, State, local and foreign income taxes payable by API and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) extraordinary and other non-cash losses and expenses ((w) other than in respect of provision for doubtful accounts or
provision for obsolescence, (x) other than in respect of depreciation and amortization expense, (y) excluding any such non-cash item to the extent that it represents an accrual or reserve for potential cash items in any future period, and (z) excluding any amortization of a prepaid cash item that was paid in a prior period), (iv) one-time fees, cash charges and other cash expenses, premiums or penalties incurred in connection with any asset sale, any issuance of equity interests or any issuance, incurrence or repayment of indebtedness and/or any refinancing transaction or modification or amendment of any debt instrument (including any transaction undertaken but not completed) and (v) cash charges and other cash expenses (including as cash charges and expenses any such non-cash items that represent an accrual or reserve for potential cash items in a future period), premiums or penalties incurred in connection with any restructuring or relating to any legal or regulatory action, settlement, judgment or ruling, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000,000 for the period from October 1, 2012 until the Commitment Termination Date, and
minus
(b) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period (excluding any such non-cash item to the extent it represents the reversal of an accrual or reserve for potential cash item in any prior period or is expected to be a cash item in any future period).
Consolidated Interest Expense
 means, for any period, for API and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, interest expense (other than (i) hyperinflationary interest expense in any country that is offset by corresponding foreign exchange-related gains, (ii) interest expense attributable to pension accruals in Germany and Italy and (iii) interest payable to the Internal Revenue Service in respect of taxes).
Consolidated Net Income
 means, for any period, for API and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, the net income of API and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses) for that period.
SECTION 2.
Conditions of Effectiveness
. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written (the 
Amendment Effective Date
) when, and only when, each of the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied, or waived in writing by the Required Banks:
(a)
Agreements
. The Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed and delivered by the Required Banks and the Borrowers (or in the case of any such party as to which an executed counterpart shall not have been received, the Administrative Agent shall have received, in form satisfactory to it, telecopy or other written confirmation from such party of its execution of a counterpart of this Amendment).
(b)
Evidence of Incumbency
. The Administrative Agent shall have received the following:
(i)
API
. (A) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of API, dated the Amendment Effective Date, and certifying as to the incumbency and signature of each officer executing this Amendment or any document delivered in connection herewith on behalf of the API; and
(B)    a certificate of a Responsible Officer of API as to the incumbency and signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of API executing the certificate described in clause (i)(A) above.
(ii)    
ACC
. (A) a certificate of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of ACC, dated the Amendment Effective Date, and certifying as to the incumbency and signature of each officer executing this Amendment or any document delivered in connection herewith on behalf of ACC; and
(B)    a certificate of a Responsible Officer of ACC as to the incumbency and signature of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of ACC executing the certificate described in clause (ii)(A) above.
SECTION 3.
Representations and Warranties of the Borrowers
The Borrowers represent and warrant as follows:
(a)    The representations and warranties of the Borrowers set forth in Article 5 of the Credit Agreement (other than the representations and warranties contained in Sections 5.01(d)(ii) and 5.01(e)(ii) or any other representations and warranties that expressly relate to a date certain) are true and correct with the same effect as though such representations and warranties had been made on the date hereof.
(b)    No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
(c)    The execution, delivery and performance by each Borrower of this Amendment are within the corporate powers of such Borrower and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action of such Borrower, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official and do not contravene in any material respect, or constitute a material default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of the certificate of incorporation or by-laws (or similar constitutive instruments) of such Borrower or of any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding upon such Borrower or result in the creation or imposition of any material Lien on any asset of any Borrower or any Material Subsidiary.
(d)    This Amendment constitutes a valid and binding agreement of each Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, and to general equity principles, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
SECTION 4.
Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement and the Notes
.
(a) On and after the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to this Agreement, hereunder, hereof or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the Notes to the Credit Agreement, thereunder, thereof or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment.
(b)    The Credit Agreement and the Notes, as specifically amended by this Amendment, are and shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.
(c)    The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Bank or the Agent under the Credit Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.
SECTION 5.
Costs and Expenses
The Borrowers agree to pay promptly all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery and administration, modification and amendment of this Amendment and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm of counsel for the Agent) in accordance with the terms of Section 11.03 of the Credit Agreement.
SECTION 6.
Execution in Counterparts
. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Amendment by telecopier or other electronic means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
SECTION 7.
Governing Law
. This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.


