FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20060809203336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
By press release dated August 9, 2006, Cendant Corporation ("Cendant"), the former parent company of Wyndham Worldwide Corporation ("Wyndham Worldwide"), announced, among other things, the second quarter 2006 results of operations for Wyndham Worldwide. Wyndham Worldwide was separated from Cendant in a tax-free distribution to stockholders on July 31, 2006. Although the separation was effective July 31, 2006, Cendant will include in its second quarter 2006 results of operations the results of operations for Wyndham Worldwide since Wyndham Worldwide was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cendant at June 30, 2006.
The following summarizes Wyndham Worldwide's pro forma financial results (as if it had been an independent company without consideration of incremental stand alone company costs) for the second quarters 2006 and 2005:
Revenues for the second quarter increased $88 million, or 10%, over the same period in 2005, reflecting strong growth in lodging and vacation ownership. Net income was $75 million, or $0.37 per pro forma share, compared to $89 million, or $0.44 per pro forma share for quarters 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2006 results reflect approximately $32 million pretax expenses (including $11 million relating to interest) related to a previously disclosed accrual for local foreign taxes at our European vacation rental operations and approximately $5 million pretax of separation costs associated with our spin-off from Cendant. The net, after-tax effect of these items reduced reported earnings per pro forma share by $0.12.
Second Quarter Results of Operating Segments
Lodging
The largest contributor to revenue growth was the inclusion of approximately $35 million of revenue resulting from the acquisition of Wyndham Hotels and Resorts, of which approximately $28 million had no impact on EBITDA because it related to reimbursable expenses. RevPAR (revenue per available room) increased 15.9% compared to the second quarter 2005, including the Wyndham Hotels and Resorts and Baymont acquisitions. Second quarter 2006 RevPAR excluding the acquisitions increased 9.6% from the prior year, reflecting overall growth in a strong lodging market and the continued, beneficial effect of management initiatives implemented in prior periods.
At June 30, 2006, the Wyndham Hotel Group system consisted of over 6,440 franchised hotels with over 535,000 rooms. The Company's hotel development pipeline as of June 30, 2006, included approximately 790 hotels and 85,000 rooms. New construction contracts represented approximately 45% of the development pipeline. During the six month period ended June 30, 2006, we opened over 30,000 rooms (approximately 20,000 excluding the acquisition of Baymont) or approximately 320 franchised hotels (approximately 190 excluding the acquisition of Baymont).
Vacation Exchange and Rental
While volume at our European parks rental business increased and points membership experienced strong growth, revenue for the vacation rental business was primarily flat due to continued weakness in France as a destination market. We experienced soft exchange bookings in the second quarter at hurricane-zone resorts, however, July bookings were stronger, which we believe is an indication of our members booking closer to their travel date.
Table of Contents
EBITDA decreased due to the previously discussed $21 million accrual related to estimated back taxes as well as the incremental expenses incurred to expand our business into emerging markets internationally and bolster our consulting business worldwide.
Vacation Ownership
Revenue and EBITDA principally increased due to strong growth in timeshare sales and increased consumer financing income. Growth in timeshare sales revenue was driven by an 11% increase in volume per guest ("VPG") and a 9% increase in tour flow. VPG benefited from higher pricing and increased conversion of tours into sales. Tour flow was positively affected by the continued development of the Trendwest in-house sales program and ongoing improvement in local marketing efforts. Second quarter 2006 results were negatively affected by the adoption in January 2006 of a new accounting standard for the recognition of timeshare sales revenue and expenses (SFAS No. 152), which reduced revenue by $46 million and EBITDA by $2 million, as well as the absence of $11 million of income that was recognized in second quarter 2005 in connection with the disposal of land that was no longer needed for development. Excluding the effect of these items, revenue and EBITDA would have increased 22% and 32%, respectively.
Other Items
Table of Contents
Second Quarter and Six Month Results of Operating Segments
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon revenue and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding interest on securitized vacation ownership debt) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Combined Condensed Statements of Income. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. The following tables summarize revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three month and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 and 2005:
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Net Income
Table of Contents
Reconciliation of EBITDA to Net Income
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Wyndham Worldwide reiterates 2006 revenue guidance of $3,670  $3,770 million and EBITDA guidance of $750  $780 million, including the tax accrual described above and excluding separation costs. The second quarter tax accrual should have no material impact on any subsequent quarter; separation costs, on the other hand, will be larger in the second half of 2006, as previously disclosed.
Wyndham Worldwide provides the following additional guidance with respect to its expectations for the remainder of 2006, assuming the sale of Travelport:
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished, not filed, with this Current Report on Form 8-K. Accordingly, Exhibit 99.1 will not be incorporated by reference into any other filing made by Wyndham Worldwide with the Securities Exchange Commission, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide (NYSE:WYN) offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses more than 6,400 franchised hotels and approximately 535,000 hotel rooms worldwide. RCI Global Vacation Network offers its more than 3 million members access to approximately 55,000 vacation properties located in more than 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of more than 140 vacation ownership resorts serving more than 750,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 28,800 employees globally.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains or incorporates by reference certain statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Wyndham to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements were based on various facts and were derived utilizing numerous important assumptions and other important factors, and changes in such facts, assumptions or factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Any statements that refer to expectations or other characterizations of future events, circumstances or results are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our future financial performance, business strategy, projected plans and objectives. Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "projects," "estimates," "plans," "may increase," "may fluctuate" and similar expression or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would," "may" and "could" are generally forward looking in nature and not historical facts. Wyndham cannot provide any assurances that any of the proposed transactions relating to Cendant's separation plan that may impact Wyndham, such as the proposed sale of Travelport, will be completed, and can give no assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The sale of Travelport is subject to certain conditions precedent as described in the purchase agreement to such sale.
Various factors that could affect our future results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: terrorist attacks, such as the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, may negatively affect the travel industry, result in a disruption in our business and adversely affect Wyndham's financial results; adverse developments in general business, economic and political conditions or any outbreak or escalation of hostilities on a national, regional or international basis; competition in Wyndham's existing and future lines of business, and the financial resources of competitors; Wyndham's failure to comply with regulations and any changes in laws and regulations, including hospitality, vacation rental and vacation ownership-related regulations;
Table of Contents
telemarketing regulations, privacy policy regulations and state, federal and international tax laws; seasonal fluctuation in the travel business; local and regional economic conditions that affect the travel and tourism industry; Wyndham's failure to complete future acquisitions or to realize anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions; actions by Wyndham's franchisees that could harm our business; Wyndham's inability to access the capital and/or the asset-backed markets on a favorable basis; the loss of any of Wyndham's senior management; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including exposure to local economic conditions, government regulation, currency restrictions and other restraints, changes in tax laws, expropriation, political instability and diminished ability to legally enforce Wyndham's contractual rights; Wyndham's failure to provide fully integrated disaster recovery technology solutions in the event of a disaster or other business interruption; the final resolutions or outcomes with respect to Cendant's contingent and other corporate liabilities and any related actions for indemnification made pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement; a failure by Cendant to complete the sale of Travelport, to receive gross cash proceeds of $4,300 million (which purchase price is subject to adjustment) or to contribute to us all or a portion of the proceeds that Wyndham expects to receive in connection with such sale; Wyndham's inability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly traded company; and the costs associated with becoming compliant with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the consequences of failing to implement effective internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the date that we must comply with that section of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on Wyndham's performance or achievements. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this press release may not occur. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date stated, or if no date is stated, as of the date of this press release. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements are specified in Wyndham's Information Statement, including under headings such as "Risk Factors," "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Except for Wyndham's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, Wyndham undertakes no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events unless required by law.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 9, 2006
Table of Contents

 
 Cendant Corporation () today reported results for second quarter 2006. Revenue totaled $4.3 billion, an increase of 2% over second quarter 2005, reflecting growth across Wyndham Worldwide and the Company's Avis Budget businesses. EPS from Continuing Operations was $0.17, which excludes the results of Travelport, formerly the Company's Travel Distribution Services division, which are classified as discontinued operations due to the pending sale of that business. As previously announced, the Company completed the spin-offs of Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide in tax-free distributions to its stockholders on July 31, 2006. Excluding separation and restructuring costs and the previously disclosed tax accrual at Wyndham Worldwide, EPS from Continuing Operations was $0.24.
NEW YORK, August 9, 2006
NYSE: CD
Cendant's Chairman and CEO, Henry R. Silverman, stated: "The past several months were a period of strategic milestones for Cendant. We completed the spin-offs of Realogy and Wyndham Worldwide to our shareholders and each is now an independent, publicly-traded company. The sale of Travelport is expected to be completed this month, after which Avis Budget Group will be an independent, publicly-traded company. These companies are leaders in their respective industries and we are excited about the prospects for each to grow, prosper and create long-term value for its shareholders."
The following discussion of operating results focuses on revenue and EBITDA for each of the Company's core operating segments as of June 30, 2006. Revenue and EBITDA are expressed in millions.
Second Quarter 2006 Results of Core Operating Segments
(Consisting of the Company's former real estate franchise brands, brokerage operations, relocation services and settlement services businesses)
Realogy (formerly Real Estate Services)
Revenue and EBITDA declined in line with Realogy's expectations principally due to lower revenue at Realogy's real estate franchise and NRT real estate brokerage businesses, partially offset by growth in its settlement services business due to the acquisition of Texas American Title Company and related companies in January 2006. Home prices increased 5% at both real estate franchise and NRT. These increases
 
were offset by closed sides decreases of 16% and 13% at real estate franchise and NRT, respectively. The decreases in closed sides were impacted by the acquisitions of brokerages by NRT. Excluding this impact, closed sides would have decreased 14% and 17% at real estate franchise and NRT, respectively. The decline in closed sides volume reflects moderation of the residential real estate market, particularly in some of the areas where NRT is concentrated such as Florida and California. In addition, EBITDA comparisons were negatively impacted by an incremental $13 million of separation and restructuring costs. Excluding these costs, EBITDA would have been down 19%.
(Consisting of the Company's former franchised lodging brands, hotel management, timeshare exchange and vacation rental businesses)
Hospitality Services (now part of Wyndham Worldwide)
Revenue increased due to growth in Wyndham Worldwide's lodging and Vacation Network Group (VNG) businesses. The largest contributor to revenue growth was the inclusion of approximately $35 million of revenue resulting from the acquisition of Wyndham Hotels and Resorts, of which approximately $28 million had no impact on EBITDA because it related to reimbursable expenses. Lodging revenue was also positively impacted by a 10% improvement in RevPAR, excluding Wyndham Hotels and Resorts and Baymont Hotels, both of which were recently acquired. EBITDA declined principally due to a previously announced $25 million foreign tax accrual that was recorded in the European vacation rental operations.
(Consisting of the Company's former timeshare sales and development businesses)
Timeshare Resorts (now part of Wyndham Worldwide)
Revenue and EBITDA increased principally due to growth in timeshare sales and increased consumer financing income. Growth in timeshare sales revenue was driven by an 11% increase in revenue per guest and a 9% increase in tour flow. Revenue per guest benefited from higher pricing and increased conversion of tours into sales, and tour flow was positively impacted by the continued development of the Trendwest in-house sales program and continued improvement in local marketing efforts. Operating results were negatively impacted by the adoption in first quarter 2006 of a new accounting standard for the recognition of timeshare sales revenue and expenses (SFAS No. 152), and the absence of $11 million of income that was recognized in second quarter 2005 in connection with a previously disclosed disposal of land that was no longer needed for development. Excluding the impact of these items, revenue and EBITDA would have increased 24% and 39%, respectively.
 
(Consisting of the Company's car and truck rental businesses)
Avis Budget (formerly Vehicle Rental)
Revenue increased due to growth in our domestic and international car rental operations. Car rental revenue grew 12% worldwide due to a 9% increase in price and a 3% increase in rental day volume. As expected, EBITDA comparisons were negatively impacted by increased fleet costs. We expect continuing year-over-year price increases for the remainder of 2006 as we seek to offset the impact of higher fleet costs.
Other Items
 
The following table presents the previously announced pro forma 2005 and expected pro forma 2006 financial data for Avis Budget Car Rental, LLC and its subsidiaries, the companies that comprise Cendant's vehicle rental business.
Outlook for Avis Budget
(1)     The expected pro forma results provided above give effect to the $1.875 billion of corporate borrowings completed in April 2006 and repayment of vehicle-backed debt with a portion of the net proceeds of such financing, removal of Cendant-allocated general overhead costs, the incurrence of stand-alone public company costs, elimination of the approximately $802 million intercompany balance with Cendant and the associated interest income, and increased truck lease financing costs due to the separation.
(2)     Full year estimates may not total because actual results are not expected to be at the lowest or highest of the expected range.
 
Cendant will host a conference call to discuss the second quarter results on Thursday, August 10, 2006, at 11:00 a.m. (ET). Investors may access the call live at or by dialing (913) 981-5509. A web replay will be available at following the call. A telephone replay will be available from 2:00 p.m. (ET) on August 10, 2006 until 8:00 p.m. (ET) on August 17, 2006 at (719) 457-0820, access code: 6465003.
Investor Conference Call
www.cendant.com
www.cendant.com
About Cendant Corporation
Cendant is now comprised of its Travelport and Avis Budget Group businesses. Travelport is classified as a discontinued operation due to its impending sale. Avis Budget Group is a leading provider of vehicle rental services with operations in more than 50 countries. Through its Avis and Budget brands, Avis Budget Group is the largest general-use vehicle rental operator in each of North America, Australia, New Zealand and certain other regions. Avis Budget Group is headquartered in Parsippany, NJ and has more than 30,000 employees.
About Realogy Corporation
Realogy Corporation (NYSE: H) is the world's largest residential real estate brokerage franchisor, the largest U.S. residential real estate brokerage firm, a leading global provider of outsourced employee relocation services, and a provider of title and settlement services. Realogy's brands include Century 21, Coldwell Banker, Coldwell Banker Commercial, ERA, Sotheby's International Realty, NRT Incorporated, Cartus and Title Resource Group. Realogy is headquartered in Parsippany, NJ and has more than 15,000 employees.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE: WYN) is one of the world's largest hospitality companies offering individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services including lodging, vacation exchange and rental services, and vacation ownership interests in resorts. Wyndham Worldwide is headquartered in Parsippany, NJ, and is supported by approximately 28,800 employees around the world.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words "believes", "expects", "anticipates", "intends", "projects", "estimates", "plans", "may increase", "may fluctuate" and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will", "should", "would", "may" and "could" are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Any statements that refer to expectations or other characterizations of future events, circumstances or results are forward-looking
 
statements. The Company cannot provide any assurances that the remaining proposed transactions related to the separation, principally the proposed sale of Travelport, will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated
Various risks that could cause future results to differ from those expressed by the forward-looking statements included in this press release include, but are not limited to risks related to the proposed sale of Travelport, the high level of competition in the vehicle rental industry, increased costs for new vehicles, a downturn in airline passenger traffic, an occurrence or threat of terrorism, a significant increase in interest rates or borrowing costs and the Company's ability to make changes necessary to operate following completion of the separation plan. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have material adverse effects on Cendant's and its companies' performance or achievements. In light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the forward-looking events discussed in this press release may not occur. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date stated, or if no date is stated, as of the date of this press release. Important assumptions and other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements are specified in Cendant's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the period ended June 30, 2006, including under headings such as "Forward-Looking Statements," "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events unless required by law.
This release includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. As required by SEC rules, important information regarding such measures is contained on Table 8 to this release.
Kelli Segal, Cendant Corporation (212) 413-1871
Media Contacts:
Mark Panus, Realogy Corporation (973) 407-7215
Sam Levenson, Cendant Corporation (212) 413-1834
Investor Contacts:
Henry A. Diamond, Realogy Corporation (973) 407-2710
Margo C. Happer, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (973) 496-2705
David Crowther, Avis Budget Group (973) 496-7277
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
Table 1 page 1 of 2
 
 
Table 1 page 2 of 2
Segment Results
 
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3
 
 
Table 4
 
 
Table 5
 
 
Table 6
 
Table 7
 
 
Table 8
The accompanying press release includes certain non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures as defined under SEC rules. As required by SEC rules, we have provided below the reasons we present these non-GAAP financial measures and a description of what they represent.


