FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20061101181111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006.
A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
Exhibit 99.1  Press release issued on November 1, 2006.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (November 1, 2006)  Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN), one of the world's premier hospitality companies, today announced results for the three- and nine- months ended September 30, 2006.
THIRD QUARTER 2006 HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE:
"I am pleased to report strong results in our initial quarter as an independent, publicly traded company," said Stephen P. Holmes, Wyndham Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer. "We achieved double-digit revenue growth across all of our businesses driven by increases in key operating metrics as consumers and business partners recognized the value of our premier portfolio of brands in a strong travel and leisure environment."
2006 Third Quarter Results
Revenues for the third quarter of 2006 were $1,047 million, up 10% over the same period in 2005, reflecting strong growth across the businesses. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2006 was $120 million or $0.59 diluted earnings per share excluding:
Including these adjustments, net income for the third quarter of 2006 was $92 million, or $0.45 diluted earnings per share compared to $121 million, or $0.60 per share on a diluted basis (based on a pro forma share count) for the third quarter of 2005.
The third quarter 2006 results include only two months of incremental stand-alone corporate costs as a result of the spin-off occurring on July 31, 2006. The Company estimates that incremental stand-alone, corporate costs would have been approximately $3 million (after-tax) for the month of July. It should be noted that 2005 results did not include incremental stand-alone corporate costs nor interest expense associated with corporate debt, as Wyndham Worldwide was not a separate stand-alone company.
Third Quarter Results of Operating Segments
"During an intense period of activity related to our creation as a separate public company, our businesses delivered strong growth and we continued to position ourselves to capitalize on future growth
 
opportunities," said Holmes. "In Lodging, we have significantly increased our international presence and we have successfully broadened our market position, moving firmly into the attractive upscale and upper upscale segments. We continue to enhance and expand our RCI and vacation rental networks with new markets and products. Finally, we launched an extensive re-branding of our vacation ownership properties to fit under the Wyndham umbrella, which we believe will drive both tour flow and sales efficiencies."
Lodging
Lodging revenues were $189 million for the third quarter of 2006, a 28% increase compared to $148 million for the third quarter of 2005. The 2006 third quarter results include the acquisitions of Wyndham Hotels and Resorts and Baymont Inn & Suites, which together contributed combined revenues of $34 million.
Lodging Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2006 increased 5% to $68 million (excluding separation and related costs of $1 million) compared to $65 million in the third quarter of 2005. Lodging Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2006 includes incremental marketing expense of approximately $5 million primarily associated with increasing Wyndham brand recognition. In addition, Lodging revenue and expense for the third quarter of 2006 includes approximately $17 million of revenues and related reimbursable expenses from management contracts.
RevPAR for the third quarter of 2006 was $40.82, an 11% increase from the third quarter of 2005 and the highest quarterly level in the Company's history. This increase was driven by the benefit of management initiatives to enhance the performance of the lodging portfolio that were implemented in prior periods, the overall strength in the hotel industry as well as the inclusion of the Wyndham and Baymont businesses. Excluding the Wyndham and Baymont acquisitions, RevPAR for the third quarter of 2006 was $39.36, an increase of 7% from the third quarter of 2005. Weighted average rooms were flat, sequentially, for the third quarter of 2006 when compared to second quarter of 2006.
The Company's hotel development pipeline as of September 30, 2006, included approximately 800 hotels and approximately 86,000 rooms, of which approximately 25% are international.
Vacation Exchange and Rental
Vacation Exchange and Rental revenues increased 10% to $310 million in the third quarter of 2006 from $283 million in the third quarter of 2005, reflecting increases in volume, pricing and members.
Vacation Exchange revenues grew 10% compared to the third quarter of 2005, reflecting increases in volume and the average annual dues and exchange revenue per member, as well as 4% growth in the average number of members. RCI continues to be the world's largest vacation exchange network, approaching 3.4 million members.
Net revenues from rental transactions increased 11% compared to the third quarter of 2005 primarily due to a 6% increase in the average price per rental and a 3% increase in rental transaction volume. Arrivals were strong at the Company's Landal GreenParks and Canvas Holiday camping vacation sites and bookings increased at its Novasol and Holiday Cottages properties. Revenues also benefited from $7 million of favorable foreign currency translation.
Vacation Exchange and Rental Adjusted EBITDA grew to $98 million (excluding separation and related costs of $1 million) for the third quarter of 2006, a 4% increase compared to the third quarter of 2005, including continued investment in the Company's international consulting operations and a shift in mix to lower-margin transactions.
 
Vacation Ownership
Gross VOI sales were $482 million for the third quarter of 2006, up more than 20% compared to the third quarter of 2005, driven by a 15% growth in tour flow and a 6% increase in volume per guest. Consumer finance revenues increased 26% for the third quarter of 2006 compared to the third quarter of 2005, reflecting the continued growth in the Company's contract receivables portfolio, consistent with the VOI revenue growth. The strong tour flow growth was the result of the ongoing development of in-house sales programs and enhancements to local marketing efforts.
Vacation Ownership third quarter 2006 revenues were $551 million and Adjusted EBITDA was $89 million (excluding separation and related costs of $1 million). These results reflect the adoption of SFAS No. 152, "Accounting for Real Estate Time-Sharing Transactions," which reduced revenue and Adjusted EBITDA by $72 million and $5 million, respectively. Excluding the effect of SFAS No. 152, revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2006 were both up approximately 20% compared to the third quarter of 2005. The third quarter 2006 Adjusted EBITDA to third quarter 2005 Adjusted EBITDA comparison for Vacation Ownership is helped somewhat by the inclusion in 2005 of $14 million of expenses associated with the Gulf Coast hurricanes, the impact of which continues to affect 2006 Adjusted EBITDA.
Balance Sheet
The Company provided the following balance sheet data as of September 30, 2006:
A debt table is included in the financial tables section of this press release.
Share Repurchase
On August 24, 2006, Wyndham Worldwide announced its intention to commence a stock repurchase program of up to $400 million. Through September 30, 2006, the Company had repurchased 4.6 million shares at an average price of $28.43. During October 2006, the Company repurchased an additional 5.0 million shares.
"We believe a stock repurchase program is an effective means to both enhance shareholder value and demonstrate our confidence in the long-term value of Wyndham Worldwide. We think our shares offer a compelling return on investment opportunity and will continue to purchase as appropriate within the parameters of the program," said Holmes.
Outlook
Wyndham Worldwide expects 2006 revenues of $3,670  $3,770 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $750 $765 million:
 
For the fourth quarter 2006, the Company expects:
Preliminary guidance for the full-year 2007 is:
Further detail on guidance for 2007 will be provided at the Company's Investor Day, scheduled for December 12, 2006.
"We are strongly positioned to leverage our extraordinary footprint in Lodging, Vacation Exchange and Rental, and Vacation Ownership to the benefit of customers and shareholders," said Holmes. "I am excited by our opportunities as we continue to build the Wyndham brand, pursue international opportunities, and develop new offerings to meet the evolving needs of travelers worldwide."
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will provide a webcast of its conference call to discuss the Company's third-quarter financial results, Thursday, Nov. 2 at 10 a.m. EST. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's Web site at or at Thomson Financial's institutional investor site at . An archive of this webcast will be available at these Web sites for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EST on Nov. 2. The conference call also may be accessed by dialing (312) 470-7177 and providing the pass code "Wyndham." Listeners are urged to call at least 5-10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available at (203) 369-3916 beginning at noon EST on Nov. 2 until 5 p.m. EST on Nov. 9.
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/
www.streetevents.com
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses more than 6,400 franchised hotels and approximately 534,000 hotel rooms worldwide. RCI Global Vacation Network offers its nearly 3.4 million members access to approximately 63,000 vacation properties located in more than 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of more than 140 vacation ownership resorts serving more than 750,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 28,800 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the company's web site at .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to trends for the Company's revenues, earnings, margins and related financial and operating measures, the number of
 
hotels and resorts the Company intends to add in future periods, debt levels, share repurchases and rebranding initiatives.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements include general economic conditions, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war and terrorist activity, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rental and vacation ownership businesses, the timing and amount of share repurchases, as well as those specified in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed August 18, 2006, including under headings "Risk Factors," "Forward-Looking Statements" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Investor contact:
Margo C. Happer Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 1 Campus Drive Parsippany, NJ 07054
(973) 496-2705
margo.happer@wyndhamworldwide.com
Press contact:
Rich Roberts Vice President, Communications Wyndham Hotel Group 1 Sylvan Way Parsippany, NJ 07054
(973) 753-6590
 
Table 1
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon revenue and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding interest on securitized vacation ownership debt) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Condensed Statements of Income. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies. It is not practical to provide a reconciliation of forecasted Adjusted EBITDA for each of the full years 2006 and 2007 to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net income, as applicable, because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any of those items could be significant to our financial results.
The following tables summarize revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three month and nine month periods ended September 30, 2006 and 2005:
 
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3 Page 1 of 2
 
Full year amounts may not foot across due to rounding.
Note:
 
Table 3 Page 2 of 2
Lodging
Represents the weighted average number of hotel rooms available for rental for the period at lodging properties.
Weighted Average Rooms Available:
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying the percentage of available rooms occupied for the period by the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
RevPAR:
Represents the number of lodging properties operated under franchise and management agreements at the end of the period.
Number of Properties:
Vacation Exchange and Rental
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related products and services.
Average Number of Members:
Represents total revenues from annual membership dues and exchange fees generated for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the year.
Annual Dues and Exchange Revenue Per Member:
Represents the gross number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. In our European vacation rental businesses, one rental transaction is recorded each time a standard one-week rental is booked; however, in the United States, one rental transaction is recorded each time a vacation rental stay is booked, regardless of whether it is less than or more than one week.
Vacation Rental Transactions:
Represents the gross rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers, before net rental fees paid to cottage owners, divided by the number of rental transactions.
Average Price Per Vacation Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents gross sales of vacation ownership interests (including tele-sales upgrades, which is a component of upgrade sales) before deferred sales and loan loss provisions.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents revenue per guest and is calculated by dividing the gross vacation ownership interest sales, excluding tele-sales upgrades, which is a component of upgrade sales, by the number of tours.
Volume per Guest (VPG):
 
Table 4
 


