FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20061221115654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. Other Events.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation is updating its quarterly operating statistics (also known as quarterly drivers) as of September 30, 2006. The primary change is to replace selected operating statistics included in its filing as of September 30, 2006 in the Company's press release issued on November 1, 2006 with different operating statistics for the same retrospective periods; specifically the Company will now present its Average Price Per Vacation Rental on a net rather than a gross basis. Accordingly, Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental is now presented net of rental fees paid to rental property owners.
The operating statistics, as of September 30, 2006, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
Exhibit 99.1  Wyndham Worldwide Corporation Operating Statistics, as of September 30, 2006.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 of 2
 
 
Page 2 of 2
Lodging
Represents the weighted average number of hotel rooms available for rental for the period at lodging properties.
Weighted Average Rooms Available:
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying the percentage of available rooms occupied for the period by the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
RevPAR:
Represents the number of lodging properties operated under franchise and management agreements at the end of the period.
Number of Properties:
Vacation Exchange and Rental
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related products and services.
Average Number of Members:
Represents total revenues from annual membership dues and exchange fees generated for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the year.
Annual Dues and Exchange Revenue Per Member:
Represents the gross number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. In our European vacation rental businesses, one rental transaction is recorded each time a standard one-week rental is booked; however, in the United States, one rental transaction is recorded each time a vacation rental stay is booked, regardless of whether it is less than or more than one week.
Vacation Rental Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers divided by the number of rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents gross sales of vacation ownership interests (including tele-sales upgrades, which is a component of upgrade sales) before deferred sales and loan loss provisions.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents revenue per guest and is calculated by dividing the gross vacation ownership interest sales, excluding tele-sales upgrades, which is a component of upgrade sales, by the number of tours.
Volume per Guest (VPG):


