FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20070201165206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     The information included in Item 2.03 below is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     On December 5, 2006, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation ("Wyndham Worldwide") issued $800 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.00% senior unsecured notes due 2016 (the "Notes"). The terms of the Notes are governed by an Indenture, dated as of December 5, 2006 between Wyndham Worldwide and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee.
     The Notes have a fixed interest rate equal to 6.00%, payable semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on June 1, 2007. Wyndham Worldwide will be required to pay additional interest on the Notes, subject to some limitations, if it fails to comply with certain obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement (described below).
     The Notes will be redeemable at any time prior to maturity at a redemption price equal to the sum of the principal being redeemed, accrued and unpaid interest and a "make-whole" premium specified in the Notes.
     If Wyndham Worldwide experiences a change of control and each of the debt ratings on the Notes is non-investment grade on any date within a specified period of time following the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a change in control, Wyndham Worldwide will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
     The Indenture contains customary provisions for events of default including for failure to pay principal or interest when due and payable, failure to comply with covenants or agreements in the Indenture or the Notes and failure to cure or obtain a waiver of such default upon notice, a default under other debt of Wyndham Worldwide or its subsidiaries such that at least $50 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness is accelerated which acceleration has not been rescinded and events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization affecting Wyndham Worldwide. In the case of an event of default, the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest may be accelerated.
     In connection with the sale of the Notes, Wyndham Worldwide entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 5, 2006 with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as initial purchasers and representatives of the other initial purchasers of the Notes. Under the Registration Rights Agreement, Wyndham Worldwide agreed to make an offer to exchange the Notes for substantially similar notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. If the exchange offer is not available or cannot be completed, Wyndham Worldwide agreed to file a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the Notes under the Securities Act. If Wyndham Worldwide does not comply with these obligations within specified time periods it will be required to pay additional interest on the Notes.
     The description of the Notes, the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement in this report are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the Indenture, the form of the Notes and the Registration Rights Agreement, which are filed as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 hereto, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
     INDENTURE dated as of December 5, 2006, between WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association organized and in good standing under the laws of the United States, as trustee.
     The Company and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the securities issued under this Indenture (the ""):
Securities
     Section 1.01 .
Definitions
     For all purposes under this Indenture and any supplemental indenture hereto, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     "" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "" (including, with correlative meanings, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with"), when used with respect to any Person, shall mean the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise.
Affiliate
control
     "" means any Registrar, Paying Agent or co-registrar.
Agent
     "" means, with regard to a sale and leaseback arrangement of a Principal Property, an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the fair market value of the property (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company); or (b) the present value of the total net amount of rent payments to be made under the lease during its remaining term (including any period for which such lease has been extended and excluding any unexercised renewal or other extension options exercisable by the lessee, and excluding amounts on account of maintenance and repairs, services, taxes and similar charges and contingent rents), discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of the lease (or, if not practicable to determine such rate, the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the Securities of the applicable Series then outstanding), compounded semi-annually.
Attributable Debt
     "" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
     "" means the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
Below Investment Grade Rating Event
 
     "" means the Board of Directors of the Company, or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors.
Board of Directors
     "" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been adopted by the Board of Directors or pursuant to authorization by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of the certificate and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
     "" means any day other than a Legal Holiday.
Business Day
     "" of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity of such Person, including any preferred stock, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
     "" means the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (ii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of the Company's Capital Stock entitled to vote generally in elections of directors; or (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
Change of Control
     "" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
     "" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, or any successor thereto.
Clearstream
     "" means Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, and any and all successors thereto.
Company
     "" means a written order signed in the name of the Company by two Officers, one of whom must be the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer.
Company Order
     "" means, as of any date of determination, all items which in conformity with GAAP would be included under stockholders' equity on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries at such date.
Consolidated Net Worth
     "" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Indenture; or (ii) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the
Continuing Directors
 
approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election.
     "" shall be the address of the Trustee specified in hereof or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Company.
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee
Section 10.02
     "" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means a certificated Security registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with hereof.
Definitive Security
Section 2.08
     "" means, with respect to Securities issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified pursuant to hereof as the Depositary with respect to those Securities, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture.
Depositary
Section 2.15
     "" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debt.
Dollar
     "" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System, or any successor thereto.
Euroclear
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
     "" when used with respect to any Series of Securities issued hereunder, means a Security which is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with this Indenture and an indenture supplemental hereto, if any, or Board Resolution and pursuant to a Company Order, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all the outstanding Securities of such Series or any portion thereof, in either case having the same terms, including, without limitation, the same original issue date, date or dates on which principal is due, and interest rate or method of determining interest and which shall bear the legend as prescribed by .
Global Security
Section 2.15(c)
     "" means the legend set forth in , which is required to be placed on all Global Securities issued under this Indenture.
Global Security Legend
Section 2.15(c)
     "" means direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, the United States of America and the payment for which the United States of America pledges its full faith and credit.
Government Securities
 
     "" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
     "" of any Person means, without duplication, (i) any obligation of such Person for money borrowed, (ii) any obligation of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments and (iii) any reimbursement obligation of such Person in respect of letters of credit or other similar instruments which support financial obligations which would otherwise become Indebtedness.
Indebtedness
     "" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Indenture
     "" when used with respect to any Series of Securities, means the date specified in such Securities for the payment of any installment of interest on those Securities.
Interest Payment Date
     "" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
Investment Grade Rating
     "" means any pledge, mortgage, lien, encumbrance or other security interest.
Lien
     "," when used with respect to any Security or installment of principal thereof, means the date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, notice of option to elect repayment or otherwise.
Maturity
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
Moody's
     "" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person.
Officer
     "" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Company by two Officers of the Company, one of whom must be the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Company, that meets the requirements of and hereof.
Officers' Certificate
Section 10.04
Section 10.05
     "" means an opinion from legal counsel, that meets the requirements of and hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
Section 10.04
Section 10.05
     "" means any Security that provides for an amount less than the stated principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to .
Original Issue Discount Security
Section 6.02
     "" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to the Depository Trust Company, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
 
     "" means:
Permitted Liens
     (a) Liens existing on the date Securities are first issued hereunder;
     (b) Liens on any property or any Indebtedness of a Person existing at the time the Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Company (whether by acquisition, merger or consolidation) which were not incurred in anticipation thereof;
     (c) Liens in favor of the Company or its Subsidiaries;
     (d) Liens existing at the time of acquisition of the assets encumbered thereby which were not incurred in anticipation of such acquisition;
     (e) purchase money Liens which secure Indebtedness that does not exceed the cost of the purchased property;
     (f) Liens on real property acquired after the date on which the Securities are first issued which secure Indebtedness incurred to acquire such real property or improve such real property so long as (i) such Indebtedness is incurred on the date of acquisition of such real property or within 180 days of the acquisition of such real property; (ii) such Liens secure Indebtedness in an amount no greater than the purchase price or improvement price, as the case may be, of such real property so acquired; and (iii) such Liens do not extend to or cover any property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary other than the real property so acquired; and
     (g) Extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing types of Liens; so long as the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the amount of Indebtedness existing at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement.
     "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
     "" means an asset or assets owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary having a gross book value in excess of $50,000,000.
Principal Property
     "" means (i) each of Moody's and S&P; and (ii) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a Board Resolution) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
     "" means the registration rights agreement dated December 5, 2006, by and among the Company and the initial purchasers named therein relating to the Securities.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
     "" with respect to the Trustee, means any officer of the Trustee having direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture, or any other officer of the Trustee to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such Person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
     "" means a Subsidiary of the Company (other than a Securitization Entity) which (i) is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more of its Subsidiaries, (ii) is incorporated under the laws of the United States or a state thereof and (iii) owns a Principal Property.
Restricted Subsidiary
     "" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
     "" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Indenture.
Securities
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
     "" means any Subsidiary or other Person engaged solely in the business of effecting asset securitization transactions and related activities.
Securitization Entity
     "" or "" means each series of debentures, notes or other debt instruments of the Company created pursuant to and hereof.
Series
Series of Securities
Section 2.01
Section 2.02
     "" means any Subsidiary that would be a "Significant Subsidiary" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC, other than a Securitization Entity.
Significant Subsidiary
     "," when used with respect to any Security, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which an amount equal to the principal amount of such Security is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
     "" of any Person means (i) a corporation a majority of the outstanding voting stock of which is at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by such Person, by one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries thereof or (ii) any other Person (other than a corporation), including, without limitation, a partnership or joint venture, in which such Person, one or more Subsidiaries thereof, or such Person and one or more Subsidiaries thereof, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination thereof, has at least majority ownership interest entitled to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof (or other persons performing similar functions).
Subsidiary
     "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C.  77aaa-77bbbb), as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder as in effect on the date on which this Indenture is qualified under the TIA, except as provided in .
TIA
Section 9.03
 
     "" means the party named as such above until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder.
Trustee
     Section 1.02 .
Other Definitions
     Section 1.03 . This Indenture is subject to the mandatory provisions of the TIA, which are incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act
     "" means the Securities;
indenture securities
     "" means a Holder of a Security;
indenture security Holder
     " means this Indenture;
"indenture to be qualified
     "" or "" means the Trustee; and
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
     "" on the Securities means the Company and any successor obligor upon the Securities.
obligor
     All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by the TIA's reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
     Section 1.04 . Unless the context otherwise requires:
Rules of Construction
          (1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
          (2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
          (3) "or" is not exclusive;
          (4) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
          (5) provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and
          (6) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act shall be deemed to include substitute, replacement or successor sections or rules adopted by the SEC from time to time.
     Section 2.01 . The aggregate principal amount of Securities that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued in one or more Series. All Securities of a Series shall be identical except as may be set forth in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate detailing the adoption of the terms thereof pursuant to the authority granted under a Board Resolution. In the case of Securities of a Series to be issued from time to time, the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate may provide for the method by which specified terms (such as interest rate, maturity date, record date or date from which interest shall accrue) are to be determined. Securities may differ between Series in respect of any matters.
Issuable in Series
     Section 2.02 . At or prior to the issuance of any Securities within a Series, the following shall be established (as to the Series generally, in the case of and either as to such Securities within the Series or as to the Series generally in the case of through ) by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate pursuant to authority granted under a Board Resolution:
Establishment of Terms of Series of Securities
Section 2.02(a)
Section 2.02(b)
Section 2.02(w)
     (a) the title of the Securities of the Series (which shall distinguish the Securities of that particular Series from the Securities of any other Series);
     (b) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the Series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the Series);
     (c) the date or dates on which the principal and premium of the Securities of the Series are payable;
     (d) the rate or rates (which may be fixed or variable) at which the Securities of the Series shall bear interest, if any, or the method of determining such rate or rates, the date or dates from which such interest, if any, shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest, if any, shall be payable or the method by which such dates will be determined, the record dates for
 
the determination of Holders thereof to whom such interest is payable (in the case of Securities in registered form), and the basis upon which such interest will be calculated if other than that of a 360 day year of twelve 30 day months;
     (e) the currency or currencies, including composite currencies in which Securities of the Series shall be denominated, if other than Dollars, the place or places, if any, in addition to or instead of the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee (in the case of Securities in registered form) or the principal New York office of the Trustee (in the case of Securities in bearer form), where the principal, premium and interest with respect to Securities of such Series shall be payable or the method of such payment, if by wire transfer, mail or other means;
     (f) the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the Series may be redeemed, in whole or in part at the option of the Company or otherwise;
     (g) whether Securities of the Series are to be issued in registered form or bearer form or both and, if Securities are to be issued in bearer form, whether coupons will be attached to them, whether Securities of the Series in bearer form may be exchanged for Securities of the Series issued in registered form, and the circumstances under which and the places at which any such exchanges, if permitted, may be made;
     (h) if any Securities of the Series are to be issued in bearer form or as one or more Global Securities representing individual Securities of the Series in bearer form, whether certain provisions for the payment of additional interest or tax redemptions shall apply; whether interest with respect to any portion of a temporary Security of the Series in bearer form payable with respect to any Interest Payment Date prior to the exchange of such temporary Security in bearer form for definitive Securities of the Series in bearer form shall be paid to any clearing organization with respect to the portion of such temporary Security in bearer form held for its account and, in such event, the terms and conditions (including any certification requirements) upon which any such interest payment received by a clearing organization will be credited to the Persons entitled to interest payable on such Interest Payment Date; and the terms upon which a temporary Security in bearer form may be exchanged for one or more definitive Securities of the Series in bearer form;
     (i) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, purchase or repay the Securities of the Series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the price or prices at which, the period or periods within which, and the terms and conditions upon which, Securities of the Series shall be redeemed, purchased or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligations;
     (j) the terms, if any, upon which the Securities of the Series may be convertible into or exchanged for any of the Company's common stock, preferred stock, other debt securities or warrants for common stock, preferred stock or other securities of any kind, and the terms and conditions upon which such conversion or exchange shall be effected, including the initial conversion or exchange price or rate, the conversion or exchange period and any other additional provisions;
 
     (k) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which the Securities of the Series shall be issuable;
     (l) if the amount of principal, premium or interest with respect to the Securities of the Series may be determined with reference to an index or pursuant to a formula, the manner in which such amounts will be determined;
     (m) if the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of Securities of the Series will not be determinable as of any one or more dates prior to such Stated Maturity, the amount that will be deemed to be such principal amount as of any such date for any purpose, including the principal amount thereof which will be due and payable upon any Maturity other than the Stated Maturity and which will be deemed to be outstanding as of any such date (or, in any such case, the manner in which such deemed principal amount is to be determined), and if necessary, the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in Dollars;
     (n) any changes or additions to Article Eight;
     (o) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of the Securities of the Series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to ;
Section 6.02
     (p) the terms, if any, of the transfer, mortgage, pledge or assignment as security for the Securities of the Series of any properties, assets, moneys, proceeds, securities or other collateral, including whether certain provisions of the TIA are applicable and any corresponding changes to provisions of this Indenture as then in effect;
     (q) any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the Series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Series of Securities to declare the principal amount of, premium, if any, and interest on such Series of Securities due and payable pursuant to ;
Section 6.02
     (r) if the Securities of the Series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of a Global Security, the terms and conditions, if any, upon which such Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for other individual Definitive Securities of such Series, the Depositary for such Global Security and the form of any legend or legends to be borne by any such Global Security in addition to or in lieu of the Global Securities Legend;
     (s) any Trustee, authenticating agent, Paying Agent, transfer agent, Service Agent or Registrar;
     (t) the applicability of, and any addition to or change in, the covenants (and the related definitions) set forth in Articles Four or Five which applies to Securities of the Series;
     (u) with regard to Securities of the Series that do not bear interest, the dates for certain required reports to the Trustee;
     (v) the terms applicable to Original Issue Discount Securities, including the rate or rates at which original issue discount will accrue;
 
     (w) any other terms of Securities of the Series (which terms shall not be prohibited by the provisions of this Indenture).
     All Securities of any one Series need not be issued at the same time and may be issued from time to time, consistent with the terms of this Indenture, if so provided by or pursuant to the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate referred to above, and the authorized principal amount of any Series may be increased to provide for issuances of additional Securities of such Series, unless otherwise provided in such Board Resolution, supplemental indenture or Officers' Certificate.
     Section 2.03 . The Securities shall be issuable, except as otherwise provided with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to , as registered Securities in the denominations of one thousand Dollars ($1,000) or any integral multiple thereof, subject to and . The Securities of any Series shall bear interest payable on the dates and at the rate specified with respect to that Series. Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by with respect to Securities of any Series, the principal of and the interest on the Securities of any Series, as well as any premium thereon in case of redemption thereof prior to maturity, shall be payable in Dollars. Such payment shall be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in New York, New York. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication. Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by , interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360 day year composed of twelve 30 day months.
Denominations; Provisions for Payment
Section 2.02
Section 2.02(e)
Section 2.02(k)
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
     The interest installment on any Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date for Securities of that Series shall be paid to the Person in whose name said Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest installment.
     Unless otherwise set forth in a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate establishing the terms of any Series of Securities pursuant to hereof, the term "regular record date" as used in this Section with respect to Securities of any Series with respect to any Interest Payment Date for such Series shall mean either (i) the fifteenth day of the month immediately preceding the month in which an Interest Payment Date established for such series pursuant to hereof shall occur, if such Interest Payment Date is the first day of a month or (ii) the first day of the month in which an Interest Payment Date established for such Series pursuant to hereof shall occur, if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of a month, whether or not such date is a Business Day.
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
     Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security of a Series delivered under this Indenture upon transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security of such Series shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, that were carried by such other Security.
     Section 2.04 . One or more Officers shall sign the Securities for the Company by manual or facsimile signature. If an Officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Security is authenticated, the Security shall nevertheless be valid. A Security shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature
Execution and Authentication
 
of the Trustee or an authenticating agent. The signature shall be conclusive evidence that the Security has been authenticated under this Indenture. The Securities may contain such notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage.
     The Trustee shall at any time, and from time to time, authenticate Securities for original issue in the principal amount provided in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate, upon receipt by the Trustee of a Company Order. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
     The aggregate principal amount of Securities of any Series outstanding at any time may not exceed any limit upon the maximum principal amount for such Series set forth in the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate delivered pursuant to , except as provided in .
Section 2.02
Section 2.09
     Prior to the issuance of Securities of any Series, the Trustee shall have received and (subject to ) shall be fully protected in relying on: (a) the Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate establishing the form of the Securities of that Series or of Securities within that Series and the terms of the Securities of that Series or of Securities within that Series, (b) an Officers' Certificate complying with and , and (c) an Opinion of Counsel complying with and .
Section 7.02
Section 10.04
Section 10.05
Section 10.04
Section 10.05
     The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities of such Series: (a) if the Trustee, being advised by counsel of its selection, determines that such action may not lawfully be taken; or (b) if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or trustees, executive committee or a trust committee of directors shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to Holders of any then outstanding Series of Securities.
     The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. An authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company.
     Section 2.05 . So long as Securities of any Series remain outstanding, the Company agrees to maintain an office or agency in New York, New York (or any other place or places specified with respect to such Series pursuant to ), where Securities of such Series may be presented or surrendered for payment ("Paying Agent"), where Securities of such Series may be presented for registration of transfer or exchange ("Registrar") and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such Series and this Indenture may be served ("Service Agent"). The Registrar shall keep a register with respect to each Series of Securities and to their transfer and exchange. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address, and any change in the name or address, of each office or agency, Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency, Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the name and address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust
Registrar and Paying Agent
Section 2.02
 
Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
     The Company may also from time to time designate one or more co-registrars, additional paying agents or additional service agents and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligations to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent in each place so specified pursuant to for Securities of any Series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the name or address of any such co-registrar, additional paying agent or additional service agent. The term "" includes any co-registrar; the term "" includes any additional paying agent; and the term "" includes any additional service agent.
provided
however
Section 2.02
Registrar
Paying Agent
Service Agent
     The Company hereby appoints the Trustee as the initial Registrar, Paying Agent and Service Agent for each Series unless another Registrar, Paying Agent or Service Agent, as the case may be, is appointed prior to the time Securities of that Series are first issued.
     Section 2.06 . The Company shall require each Paying Agent, other than the Trustee, to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust, for the benefit of Holders of any Series of Securities, or the Trustee, all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of or interest on the Series of Securities, and will promptly notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, (i) the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this is subject to the provisions of , and (ii) the Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same terms and conditions as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent (if other than the Company or a Subsidiary) shall be released from all further liability with respect to the money. If the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of Holders of any Series of Securities all money held by it as Paying Agent.
Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust
Section 2.06
Section 8.06
     Section 2.07 . (a) The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders of each Series of Securities and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least ten days before each Interest Payment Date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list, in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of Holders of each Series of Securities.
Holder Lists
     (b) The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
Section 2.07(a)
 
     Section 2.08 . When Securities of a Series are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same Series, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange if its requirements for such transactions are met. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Trustee shall authenticate Securities at the Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange (except as otherwise expressly permitted herein), but the Company or the Trustee may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable upon exchanges pursuant to , or ).
Transfer and Exchange
Section 2.12
Section 3.06
Section 9.05
     Neither the Company nor the Registrar shall be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of, or exchange Securities of any Series during the period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days immediately preceding the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that Series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (b) to register the transfer or exchange of Securities of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Securities selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
     All Securities presented or surrendered for exchange or registration of transfer, as provided in this Section, shall be accompanied (if so required by the Company or the Registrar) by a written instrument or instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company or the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder or by such Holder's duly authorized attorney in writing.
     The provisions of this are, with respect to any Global Security, subject to hereof.
Section 2.08
Section 2.15
     Section 2.09 . If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same Series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities
     If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its request the Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same Series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
     In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them
 
harmless, and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof.
     Upon the issuance of any new Security under this , the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Section 2.09
     Every new Security of any Series issued pursuant to this in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that Series duly issued hereunder.
Section 2.09
     The provisions of this are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) any and all other rights and remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary, with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities, negotiable instruments or other securities.
Section 2.09
     Section 2.10 . The Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest on a Global Security effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof and those described in this as not outstanding.
Outstanding Securities
Section 2.10
     If a Security is replaced pursuant to , it ceases to be outstanding until the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a protected purchaser.
Section 2.09
     If the Paying Agent (other than the Company, a Subsidiary of the Company or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds on the Maturity of Securities of a Series money sufficient to pay such Securities payable on that date, then on and after that date such Securities of the Series cease to be outstanding and interest on them ceases to accrue.
     A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate holds the Security.
     In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be outstanding for such purposes shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to .
Section 6.02
     Section 2.11 . In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Securities of a Series have concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, Securities of a Series owned by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that for the
Treasury Securities
 
purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver only Securities of a Series that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows are so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time shall be considered in any such determination.
     Section 2.12 . Until Definitive Securities are ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Securities upon a Company Order. Temporary Securities shall be substantially in the form of Definitive Securities but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Securities. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee upon request shall authenticate Definitive Securities of the same Series and date of maturity in exchange for temporary Securities. Until so exchanged, temporary Securities shall have the same rights under this Indenture as the Definitive Securities.
Temporary Securities
     Section 2.13 . The Company at any time may deliver Securities to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Securities surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. Upon the written request of the Company, the Trustee shall cancel all Securities surrendered for transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall dispose of such canceled Securities according to its normal operating procedures (subject to the record retention requirement of the Exchange Act) and deliver a certificate of such disposition to the Company. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities that it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
Cancellation
     Section 2.14 . If the Company defaults in a payment of interest on a Series of Securities, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus, to the extent permitted by law, any interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the persons who are Holders of the Series on a subsequent special record date. The Company shall fix the record date and payment date. At least 30 days before the record date, the Company shall mail to the Trustee and to each Holder of the Series a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount of interest to be paid. The Company may pay defaulted interest in any other lawful manner.
Defaulted Interest
     Section 2.15 .
Global Securities
     (a) Terms of Securities. A Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate shall establish whether the Securities of a Series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and the Depositary for such Global Security or Securities.
     (b) Transfer and Exchange. Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained in and in addition thereto, any Global Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to for Securities registered in the names of Holders other than the Depositary for such Security or its nominee only if (i) such Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or if at any time such Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and, in either case, the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days of such event, (ii) the Company
Section 2.08
Section 2.08
 
executes and delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that such Global Security shall be so exchangeable or (iii) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented by such Global Security shall have occurred and be continuing. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for Securities registered in such names as the Depositary shall direct in writing in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Global Security with like tenor and terms.
     Except as provided in this , a Global Security may only be transferred in whole but not in part (i) by the Depositary with respect to such Global Security to a nominee of such Depositary, (ii) by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or (iii) by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
Section 2.15(b)
     (c) Legend. Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
     "THIS SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (A) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.04 OF THE INDENTURE, (B) THIS SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.15(B) OF THE INDENTURE, (C) THIS SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.13 OF THE INDENTURE AND (D) EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.15(B) OF THE INDENTURE, THIS SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY (X) BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, (Y) BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR (Z) BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY."
     (d) Acts of Holders. (i) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
          (ii) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying
 
that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
          (iii) The ownership of bearer securities may be proved by the production of such bearer securities or by a certificate executed by any trust company, bank, banker or other depositary, wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such Person had on deposit with such depositary, or exhibited to it, the bearer securities therein described; or such facts may be proved by the certificate or affidavit of the Person holding such bearer securities, if such certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory. The Trustee and the Company may assume that such ownership of any bearer security continues until (A) another such certificate or affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same bearer security is produced, (B) such bearer security is produced to the Trustee by some other Person, (C) such bearer security is surrendered in exchange for a registered security or (D) such bearer security is no longer outstanding. The ownership of bearer securities may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
          (iv) The ownership of registered securities shall be proved by the register maintained by the Registrar.
          (v) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
          (vi) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
 
     The Depositary, as a Holder, may appoint agents and otherwise authorize Participants to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action which a Holder is entitled to give or take under the Indenture.
     (e) Payments. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Indenture, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by , payment of the principal of and interest, if any, on any Global Security shall be made to the Holder thereof.
Section 2.02
     (f) Consents, Declaration and Directions. The Company, the Trustee and any Agent shall treat a person as the Holder of such principal amount of outstanding Securities of such Series represented by a Global Security as shall be specified in a written statement of the Depositary with respect to such Global Security, for purposes of obtaining any consents, declarations, waivers or directions required to be given by the Holders pursuant to this Indenture.
     Section 2.16 . The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" or "ISIN" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" or "ISIN" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility for any defect in the "CUSIP" or "ISIN" number that appears on any Security, check, advice of payment or redemption notice, that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other elements of identification printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in "CUSIP" or "ISIN" numbers.
CUSIP Numbers
     Section 2.17 . Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and the Holders of the Securities, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Indenture, or under any covenant, condition or provision herein contained; all such covenants, conditions and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and of the Holders of the Securities.
Benefits of Indenture
     Section 3.01 . The Company may, with respect to any Series of Securities, reserve the right to redeem and pay the Series of Securities or may covenant to redeem and pay the Series of Securities or any part thereof prior to the Stated Maturity thereof at such time and on such terms as provided for in such Series of Securities. If a Series of Securities is redeemable and the Company wants or is obligated to redeem prior to the Stated Maturity thereof all or part of the Series of Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the redemption date and the principal amount of Securities of the Series to be redeemed and the redemption price. The Company shall give such notice to the Trustee at least 35 but no more that 60 days before the redemption date (or such shorter notice as may be acceptable to the Trustee).
Notices to Trustee
 
     Section 3.02 . Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series of Securities by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, if less than all of the Securities are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed or purchased as follows:
Selection of Securities to be Redeemed
          (1) if the Securities are listed on any national securities exchange (the Company agrees to notify the Trustee in writing of any such listing in accordance with of this Indenture), in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange on which the Securities are listed; or
Section 7.06
          (2) if the Securities are not listed on any national securities exchange, on a pro rata basis, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
     No Securities of $1,000 of principal amount or less will be redeemed in part. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities called for redemption. The Trustee shall make the selection at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date from outstanding Securities of a Series not previously called for redemption.
     If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption that relates to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount of that Security to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the original Security presented for redemption will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security. Securities called for redemption become irrevocably due on the date fixed for redemption at the applicable redemption price, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. On and after the redemption date, unless the Company defaults in making the applicable redemption payment, interest ceases to accrue or accrete on Securities or portions of them called for redemption.
     Section 3.03 . Unless otherwise provided for a particular Series of Securities by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Company shall mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Securities are to be redeemed at its registered address.
Notice of Redemption
     The notice shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and shall state:
          (1) the redemption date;
          (2) the redemption price or the appropriate method of calculation of the redemption price, which in each case will include interest accrued and unpaid to the date fixed for redemption;
          (3) if any Security is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Security to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion shall be issued upon cancellation of the original Security;
 
          (4) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
          (5) that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
          (6) that, unless the Company defaults in making such redemption payment, or the Paying Agent is prohibited from making such payment pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, interest on Securities (or portion thereof) called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
          (7) the paragraph of the Securities and/or provision of this Indenture or any supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Securities called for redemption are being redeemed;
          (8) the CUSIP or ISIN number, if any, printed on the Securities being redeemed; and
          (9) that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP or ISIN number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Securities.
     At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at its expense; , , that the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee, at least 35 days prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as required by this .
provided
however
Section 3.03
     Section 3.04 . Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with hereof, Securities called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional.
Effect of Notice of Redemption
Section 3.03
     Failure to give notice or any defect in the notice to any Holder shall not affect the validity of the notice to any other Holder.
     Section 3.05 . Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the redemption date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent (or, if the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company is the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) money sufficient to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, all Securities to be redeemed on that date. The Trustee or the Paying Agent shall as promptly as practicable return to the Company any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Company in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption price of, and accrued interest on, all Securities to be redeemed. If such money is then held by the Company in trust and is not required for such purpose it shall be discharged from such trust.
Deposit of Redemption Price
     If the Company complies with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Securities or the portions of Securities called for redemption. If a Security is redeemed on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the
 
Person in whose name such Security was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender for redemption because of the failure of the Company to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption date until such principal is paid, and, to the extent lawful, on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Securities.
     Section 3.06 . Upon surrender of a Security that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and, upon the Company's written request, the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder (at the Company's expense) a new Security equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part
     Section 4.01 . The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each Series of Securities that it will duly and punctually make all payments in respect of each Series of Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in such Series of Securities and this Indenture. Such payments shall be considered made on the date due if on such date the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money sufficient to make all payments with respect to such Securities then due and the Trustee or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders on that date pursuant to the terms of this Indenture.
Payment of Securities
     Section 4.02 . At any time that the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, so long as any Securities are outstanding, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee and make available on its website copies of such annual reports and such information, documents and other reports as are specified in Sections 13 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act and applicable to a U.S. corporation (and not a foreign private issuer) subject to such Sections, within 15 days after the date specified for the filing with the SEC of such information, documents and reports under such Sections.
SEC Reports
     Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
     Section 4.03 . The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company an Officers' Certificate stating whether or not the signers know of any Default that occurred during such period. If they do, the certificate shall describe the Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto. The Company also shall comply with TIA  314(a)(4).
Compliance Certificate
     Section 4.04 . The Company shall execute and deliver to the Trustee such further instruments and do such further acts as may be required by applicable
Further Instruments and Acts
 
law or as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purpose of this Indenture.
     Section 4.05 . Except as permitted in Article Five hereof, the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect:
Corporate Existence
          (1) its corporate existence in accordance with the organizational documents (as the same may be amended from time to time) of the Company and
          (2) the rights (charter and statutory), licenses and franchises of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries; , , that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right, license or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Securities.
provided
however
     Section 4.06 . If applicable to any outstanding Securities, the Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. Such calculation is provided to the Trustee for informational purposes only and the Trustee has no duty or obligation to take action or investigate further.
Calculation of Original Issue Discount
     Section 4.07 . (a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, incur, assume or guarantee any Indebtedness secured by a Lien on any of its or any of its Subsidiaries' capital stock, properties or assets, other than Permitted Liens, unless it has made or will make effective provision whereby the Securities of each Series will be secured by such Lien equally and ratably with (or prior to) the Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary secured by such Lien for so long as such Indebtedness is secured. Any such Lien created pursuant to this will be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged upon the release and discharge of the Lien to which it relates.
Limitations on Liens
Section 4.07
     (b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this , the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries may, without securing the Securities of any series, directly or indirectly, incur, assume or guarantee Indebtedness that would otherwise be subject to paragraph (a) if the sum of (i) the aggregate of all Indebtedness secured by such Liens and (ii) any Attributable Debt related to any permitted sale and leaseback arrangement does not at any one time exceed the greater of (i) 25% of Consolidated Net Worth calculated as of the date of the creation or incurrence of the Lien and (ii) $300 million.
Section 4.07
     Section 4.08 . The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any arrangement with any Person to lease a Principal Property (except for any arrangements that exist on the date the
Limitations on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
 
Securities are issued or that exist at the time any Person that owns a Principal Property becomes a Restricted Subsidiary) which has been or is to be sold by the Company or the Restricted Subsidiary to the Person unless:
     (a) the sale and leaseback arrangement involves a lease for a term of not more than three years;
     (b) the sale and leaseback arrangement is entered into between the Company and a Subsidiary of the Company or between Subsidiaries of the Company;
     (c) the Company or the Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a Lien on the Principal Property at least equal in amount to the Attributable Debt associated with such Principal Property without having to secure equally and ratably the Securities pursuant to hereof;
Section 4.07
     (d) the proceeds of the sale and leaseback arrangement are at least equal to the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company in good faith) of the property and the Company applies within 180 days after the sale an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of the sale or the Attributable Debt associated with the property to (i) the retirement of long-term debt for borrowed money that is not subordinated to the Securities and that is not debt to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, or (ii) the purchase or development of other comparable property; or
     (e) the sale and leaseback arrangement is entered into within 180 days after the initial acquisition of the Principal Property subject to the sale and leaseback arrangement.
     Section 4.09  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities as provided in Article Three, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Securities pursuant to the offer described in this (the "Change of Control Offer") at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by this and described in such notice. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this , the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this by virtue of such conflict.
Purchase of Securities Upon a Change of Control.
Section 4.09
Section 4.09
Section 4.09
Section 4.09
     (b) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Securities or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions thereof properly tendered and (iii) deliver or
 
cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Securities or portions thereof being purchased by the Company and the amount to be paid by the Paying Agent. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Securities properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Securities, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Security equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Securities surrendered by such Holder, if any; in denominations as set forth herein. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date. The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third Person makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
Section 4.09
     Section 5.01 . Unless otherwise provided for a particular Series of Securities by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture or an Officers' Certificate, the Company shall be permitted to consolidate or merge with another entity or to sell, convey, assign, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to another entity, subject to its meeting all of the following conditions:
Merger, Consolidation or Sale of Assets
          (1) either (A) the Company shall be the continuing Person (in the case of a merger) or (B) the successor Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or which acquires by sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, lease or other disposition all or substantially all the properties and assets of the Company shall be a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or trust organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and shall expressly assume, by an indenture (or indentures, if at such time there is more than one Trustee) supplemental hereto, executed by such successor Person and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the Company's obligations for the due and punctual payment of the principal of, any premium and interest on, and any other amounts with respect to, all Securities then outstanding and the due and punctual performance and observance of every obligation in this Indenture and the Securities then outstanding on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
          (2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
          (3) the Company or the Successor Person shall have delivered to the Trustee, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, lease or other disposition and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article Five.
 
     Section 5.02 . (a) In case of any such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, lease or other disposition and upon the assumption by the successor entity, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all of the Securities of all series outstanding and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture or established with respect to each series of the Securities pursuant to to be performed by the Company with respect to each series, such successor entity shall succeed to and be substituted for and may exercise every right and power of the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if it had been named as the Company herein, and thereupon the predecessor entity shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
Successor Company Substituted
Section 2.02
     (b) In case of any such consolidation, amalgamation, merger, sale, conveyance, assignment, transfer, lease or other disposition such changes in phraseology and form (but not in substance) may be made in the Securities thereafter to be issued as may be appropriate.
     (c) Nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities shall prevent the Company from merging into itself or acquiring by purchase or otherwise all or any part of the property of any other Person (whether or not affiliated with the Company).
     Section 6.01 . Unless otherwise indicated for a particular Series of Securities by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto, or an Officers' Certificate, each of the following constitutes an "Event of Default" with respect to each Series of Securities:
Events of Default
          (1) the Company fails to pay interest (including additional interest, if any) when due on the Securities of such Series within 30 days of when such amount becomes due and payable;
          (2) the Company fails to pay the principal of or any premium on any Security of such Series when such amount becomes due and payable, at its maturity, or upon its acceleration or redemption;
          (3) the Company remains in breach of a covenant or warranty in respect of this Indenture or in the Securities of such Series (other than a covenant included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of Securities of another Series) for 60 days after the Company receives a written notice of default; the notice must be sent by either the Trustee or Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities;
          (4) Indebtedness of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of at least $50,000,000 in aggregate principal amount is accelerated which acceleration has not been rescinded or annulled after 30 days notice thereof;
          (5) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
 
               (A) commences a voluntary case;
               (B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case;
               (C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or
               (D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
or takes any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency;
          (6) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
               (A) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case;
               (B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or for any substantial part of its property; or
               (C) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company;
or any similar relief is granted under any foreign laws and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days; or
          (7) any other Event of Default with respect to Securities of such Series.
     The foregoing will constitute Events of Default whatever the reason for any such Event of Default and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
     The term "Custodian" means, for the purposes of this Article Six, any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
     The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after the occurrence thereof, written notice in the form of an Officers' Certificate of any Event of Default and any event which with the giving of notice or the lapse of time would become an Event of Default, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
     Section 6.02 . (a) Except as provided in , if an Event of Default with respect to any Series of Securities at the time outstanding (other than an Event of Default specified in or ) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series by notice to the Company in writing (and to the Trustee, if given by Holders of such Securities of such Series), may declare the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities of that Series, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Securities of that Series to be due and payable.
Acceleration
Section 6.03(b)
Section 6.01(5)
(6)
 
Upon such a declaration, such amounts shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in or occurs, the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities of that Series, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Securities of each Series of Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
Section 6.01(5)
(6)
ipso facto
     (b) At any time after the principal of the Securities of any Series of Securities shall have been so declared due and payable (or have become immediately due and payable), and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of that Series then outstanding hereunder, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences, and waive such Event of Default, if: (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Securities of that Series and the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any and all Securities of that Series that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate per annum expressed in the Securities of that Series to the date of such payment or deposit) and the amount payable to the Trustee under , and (ii) any and all Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to such Series of Securities, other than the nonpayment of principal (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities of that Series, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security) of Securities of that Series that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in . No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
Section 7.07
Section 6.04
     Section 6.03 . (a) Except as provided in , if an Event of Default with respect to any Series of Securities occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities of that Series, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities of that Series or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities of that Series or this Indenture.
Other Remedies
Section 6.03(b)
     The Trustee may institute and maintain a suit or legal proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Securities of a Series or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default with respect to any Series of Securities shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
     (b) To the extent elected by the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with the reporting obligations specified in , and for any failure to comply with the requirements of  314(a)(1) of the TIA, shall for the first 60 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default consist exclusively of the right to receive additional interest on the Securities at an annual rate equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the Securities. This additional interest will be in addition to any additional interest that may accrue under the Registration Rights Agreement and will be payable in the same manner as
Section 4.02
 
additional interest accruing under the Registration Rights Agreement. The additional interest will accrue on all outstanding Securities from and including the date on which an Event of Default relating to a failure to comply with the reporting obligations specified in first occurs to but not including the 60th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which the Event of Default relating to the reporting obligations shall have been cured or waived). On such 60th day (or earlier, if the Event of Default relating to the reporting obligations is cured or waived prior to such 60th day), such additional interest will cease to accrue and, if the Event of Default relating to the reporting obligations has not been cured or waived prior to such 60th day, the Securities shall be subject to an acceleration of maturity as provided in . The provisions of this will not affect the rights of Holders in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default and will have no effect on the rights of Holders under the Registration Rights Agreement; , , that in no event will the rate of additional interest accruing pursuant to this and the Registration Rights Agreement at any time exceed 1.00% per annum, in the aggregate. In the event the Company does not elect to pay additional interest upon an Event of Default in accordance with this , the Securities shall be subject to an acceleration of maturity as provided in .
Section 4.02
Section 6.02(a)
Section 6.03(b)
provided
however
Section 6.03(b)
Section 6.03(b)
Section 6.02(a)
     If the Company elects to pay additional interest as the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with the reporting obligations specified in , and for any failure to comply with the requirements of  314(a)(1) of the TIA in accordance with this , the Company shall notify all Holders and the Trustee and Paying Agent of such election on or before the close of business on the date on which such Event of Default first occurs.
Section 4.02
Section 6.03(b)
     Section 6.04 . Subject to , the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any Series by notice to the Trustee may waive an existing Default and its consequences except (i) a Default in the payment of the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities of that Series, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on a Security of that Series, (ii) a Default arising from the failure to redeem or purchase any Security of that Series when required pursuant to the terms of this Indenture or (iii) a Default in respect of a provision that under cannot be amended without the consent of each Holder of that Series affected. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right.
Waiver of Past Defaults
Section 6.02
Section 9.02
     Section 6.05 . The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of any Series may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to that Series. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or, subject to , that the Trustee determines is unduly prejudicial to the rights of any other Holder of that Series or that would subject the Trustee to personal liability; provided, however, that the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction. Prior to taking any action hereunder, the Trustee shall be entitled to indemnity satisfactory to it against all losses and expenses caused by taking or not taking such action.
Control by Majority
Section 7.01
 
     Section 6.06 . Except to enforce the right to receive payment of the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on a Security of any Series when due, no Holder of a Security of that Series may pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities of that Series unless:
Limitation on Suits
          (i) the Holder previously gave the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default with respect to that Series is continuing;
          (ii) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
          (iii) such Holder or Holders of that Series offer to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
          (iv) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of security or indemnity; and
          (v) the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities of that Series do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request during such 60-day period.
     A Holder of Securities of any Series may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of that Series or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of that Series (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
     Section 6.07 . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on the Securities held by such Holder, on or after their Maturity, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after their Maturity, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
Rights of Holders to Receive Payment
     Section 6.08 . If an Event of Default specified in or occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company for the whole amount then due and owing (together with interest on any unpaid interest to the extent lawful) and the amounts provided for in .
Collection Suit by Trustee
Section 6.01(1)
Section 6.01(2)
Section 7.07
     Section 6.09 . The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company, its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law or applicable regulations, may vote on behalf of the Holders in any election of a trustee in bankruptcy or other Person performing similar functions, and any Custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
 
amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under .
Section 7.07
     Section 6.10 . If the Trustee collects any money or property pursuant to this Article Six with respect to any Series of Securities, it shall pay out the money or property in the following order:
Priorities
     FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under ;
Section 7.07
     SECOND: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities of that Series for the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities of that Series, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Securities of that Series for the principal amount of (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities of that Series, the portion thereby specified in the terms of such Security), premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, respectively; and
     THIRD: to the Company.
     The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and amount to be paid.
     Section 6.11 . In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing, by any party litigant in the suit, of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Securities of any Series.
Undertaking for Costs
Section 6.07
     Section 6.12 . The Company (to the extent it may lawfully do so) shall at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim to take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law, wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and shall not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but shall suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
     Section 7.01 . (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to any Series of Securities, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise
Duties of Trustee
 
thereof as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Person's own affairs.
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to any Series of Securities:
          (1) the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture with respect to the Securities of that Series, as modified or supplemented by a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
          (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may, with respect to Securities of that Series, conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
     (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own grossly negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
          (1) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section;
          (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
          (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to .
Section 6.05
     (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs , and of this Section.
(a)
(b)
(c)
     (e) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company.
     (f) Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from funds except to the extent required by law.
     (g) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds to believe that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
     (h) Every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section and to the provisions of the TIA.
     Section 7.02 . (a) The Trustee may conclusively rely on and shall be fully protected by any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
Rights of Trustee
     (b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel.
     (c) The Trustee may act through agents or attorneys and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent or attorney appointed with due care.
     (d) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers; , , that the Trustee's conduct does not constitute willful misconduct or gross negligence.
provided
however
     (e) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its choice, and the advice or opinion of counsel with respect to legal matters relating to this Indenture and the Securities, shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect to any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
     (f) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Company shall be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Company.
     (g) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any Series unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references such Securities and this Indenture.
     (h) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder.
     (i) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by the Trustee in compliance with such request or direction.
     (j) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request,
 
direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.
     (k) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
     (l) In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
     (m) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
     (n) The permissive rights of the Trustee enumerated herein shall not be construed as duties.
     Section 7.03 . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar or co paying agent may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with and .
Individual Rights of Trustee
Section 7.10
Section 7.11
     Section 7.04 . The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the Securities, and it shall not be responsible for any statement of the Company in this Indenture, in the Securities, or in any document executed in connection with the sale of the Securities, other than those set forth in the Trustee's certificate of authentication.
Trustee's Disclaimer
     Section 7.05 . If a Default with respect to Securities of any Series occurs and is continuing and if it is actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder of that Series notice of the Default within 90 days after it occurs, except that with respect to any Event of Default specified in , no such notice shall be given until at least 90 days after the occurrence of such Default. Except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security when such amount becomes due and payable, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders.
Notice of Defaults
Section 6.01(3)
     Section 7.06 . Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Board Resolution, supplemental indenture hereto or Officers' Certificate, as promptly as
Reports by Trustee to Holder
 
practicable after each May 15 beginning with May 15, 2007, for so long as Securities remain outstanding, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with  313(a) of the TIA. The Trustee shall also comply with  313(b) of the TIA.
     A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be filed with the SEC and each stock exchange (if any) on which the Securities are listed. The Company agrees to notify promptly the Trustee in writing whenever the Securities become listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
     Section 7.07 . The Company shall pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation for its services as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing. The Trustee's compensation shall not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee upon request for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred or made by it, including costs of collection, in addition to the compensation for its services. Such expenses shall include the reasonable compensation and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee's agents, counsel, accountants and experts. The Company shall indemnify the Trustee and hold it harmless against any and all loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by or in connection with the administration of this trust and the performance of its duties hereunder. The Trustee shall notify the Company of any claim for which it may seek indemnity promptly upon obtaining actual knowledge thereof; provided, however, that any failure so to notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its indemnity obligations hereunder. The Company need not reimburse any expense or indemnify against any loss, liability or expense incurred by an indemnified party through such party's own willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
Compensation and Indemnity
     To secure the Company's payment obligations in this , the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee other than money or property held in trust to pay the principal of and interest and any additional payments on particular Securities.
Section 7.07
     The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this shall survive the satisfaction or discharge of this Indenture or the resignation or removal of the Trustee. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in or , the expenses are intended to constitute expenses of administration under the Bankruptcy Law.
Section 7.07
Section 6.01(5)
(6)
     Section 7.08 . The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of any Series by so notifying the Company. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any Series may remove the Trustee and may appoint a successor Trustee with respect to such Series of Securities. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee
          (1) the Trustee fails to comply with ;
Section 7.10
          (2) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
          (3) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
          (4) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
     If the Trustee resigns, is removed by the Company or by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of any Series and such Holders do not reasonably promptly appoint a successor Trustee or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason (the Trustee in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Trustee), the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee.
     A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Holders of that Series of Securities. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in .
Section 7.07
     If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee or the Holders of 10% in principal amount of the Securities of that Series may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
     If the Trustee fails to comply with , any Holder of that Series of Securities may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
Section 7.10
     Notwithstanding the replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this , the Company's obligations under shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
Section 7.08
Section 7.07
     Section 7.09 . If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation or banking association, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
Successor Trustee by Merger
     In case at the time such successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor trustee, and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and if at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any such successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor to the Trustee; and in all such cases such certificates shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have.
     Section 7.10 . The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA  310(a). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b); provided, however, that there shall be excluded from the operation of TIA  310(b)(1) any indenture or indentures under which other securities or
Eligibility; Disqualification
 
certificates of interest or participation in other securities of the Company are outstanding if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in TIA  310(b)(1) are met.
     Section 7.11 . The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or has been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
     Section 8.01 . The Company may, at the option of its Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either or hereof be applied to all outstanding Securities of any Series upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article Eight.
Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
     Section 8.02 . Upon the Company's exercise under hereof of the option applicable to this , the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to all outstanding Securities of that Series on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "Legal Defeasance"). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire debt represented by the outstanding Securities, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding" only for the purposes of hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
Legal Defeasance and Discharge
Section 8.01
Section 8.02
Section 8.04
Section 8.05
     (a) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities in , , , and ;
Section 2.05
Section 2.06
Section 2.07
Section 2.09
Section 2.12
     (b) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's obligations in connection therewith (including, but not limited to, the rights of the Trustee and the duties of the Company under , which shall survive despite the satisfaction in full of all obligations hereunder); and
Section 7.07
     (c) this Article Eight.
     Subject to compliance with this Article Eight, the Company may exercise its option under this notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under hereof.
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
     Section 8.03 . Upon the Company's exercise under hereof of the option applicable to this with respect to any Series of Securities, the Company shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in hereof, be released from its obligations under the covenants contained in , , , and of this Indenture (if applicable to such Series of
Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.01
Section 8.03
Section 8.04
Section 4.02
Section 4.07
Section 4.08
Section 4.09
Section 5.01
 
Securities) and any covenants made applicable to the Series of Securities which are subject to defeasance under the terms of a Board Resolution, a supplemental indenture hereto or an Officers' Certificate with respect to the outstanding Securities of that Series on and after the date the conditions set forth in are satisfied (hereinafter, "Covenant Defeasance"), and the Securities of that Series shall thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Securities shall not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Securities of that Series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Company's exercise under hereof of the option applicable to this hereof with respect to any Series of Securities, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in hereof, hereof (solely with respect to the covenants described in , , and ) shall not constitute an Event of Default with respect to such Securities.
Section 8.04
Section 6.01
Section 8.01
Section 8.03
Section 8.04
Section 6.01(3)
Section 4.02
Section 4.07
Section 4.08
Section 4.09
     Section 8.04 . The following shall be the conditions to the application of either or hereof to the outstanding Securities:
Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
     In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance with respect to any Series of Securities:
          (1) the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of that Series of Securities, cash in Dollars, Government Securities or a combination thereof in such amounts as will be sufficient in the written opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, so long as not contrary to the recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and delivered to the Trustee, to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the outstanding Securities of that Series on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be;
          (2) in the case of an election under hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (B) since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable U.S. federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of such Series of Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same
Section 8.02
 
manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
          (3) in the case of an election under hereof, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Securities of that Series will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
Section 8.03
          (4) no Default or Event of Default with respect to that Series of Securities shall have occurred and be continuing either:
               (a) on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default with respect to that Series of Securities resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit); or
               (b) insofar as or hereof are concerned, at any time in the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit; and
Section 6.01(5)
Section 6.01(6)
          (5) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for or relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
     Section 8.05 . Subject to hereof, all money and Government Securities (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this , the "Trustee") pursuant to hereof in respect of the outstanding Securities of the Series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Deposited Money and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.06
Section 8.05
Section 8.04
     The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or Government Securities deposited pursuant to hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Securities of that Series.
Section 8.04
     Anything in this Article Eight to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon the request of the Company any money or Government Securities held by it as provided in hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, so long as not contrary to the recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under
Section 8.04
 
hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
Section 8.04(2)
     Section 8.06 . Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
Repayment to Company
     Section 8.07 . If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any Dollars or Government Securities in accordance with or hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to or hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with or hereof, as the case may be; provided, however, that, if the Company makes any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
Reinstatement
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
Section 8.02
Section 8.03
     Section 8.08 . If at any time: (a) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of a Series theretofore authenticated (other than any Securities that shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and that shall have been replaced or paid as provided in and Securities for whose payment money and/or Government Securities have theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereupon repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in ); or (b) all such Securities of a particular Series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of that Series of Securities, cash in Dollars, Government Securities, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, so long as not contrary to the recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and delivered to the Trustee, to pay at maturity or upon redemption all Securities of that Series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal of, premium, if any, and interest due or to become due to such date of maturity or date fixed for redemption, as the case may be, and if the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder with respect to such Series by the Company, and shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate, each stating that all conditions precedent relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such Series have been complied with, then this Indenture shall thereupon cease to be of further effect with respect to such Series except for:
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture
Section 2.09
Section 8.06
 
     (a) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities of that Series under Article Two;
     (b) the Company's agreements set forth in and ;
Section 5.01
Section 5.02
     (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Company's obligations in connection therewith (including, but not limited to, the rights of the Trustee and the duties of the Company under , which shall survive despite the satisfaction in full of all obligations hereunder); and
Section 7.07
     (d) this Article Eight,
     each of which shall survive until the Securities of such Series have been paid in full (thereafter, the Company's obligations in only shall survive).
Section 7.07
     Upon the Company's exercise of this , the Trustee, on demand of the Company and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to such Series of Securities.
Section 8.08
     Section 9.01 . The Company and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Holder:
Without Consent of Holders
          (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company pursuant to Article Five and the assumption by such successor of the Company's covenants, agreements and obligations in this Indenture and in the Securities;
          (2) to provide for the issuance of additional Securities in accordance with the limitations set forth herein;
          (3) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company by this Indenture, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions for the protection of the Holders of all or any Series of Securities as the Board of Directors of the Company shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of such Securities, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in respect of any such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions a Default or an Event of Default under this Indenture; , , that with respect to any such additional covenant, restriction, condition or provision, such amendment may provide for a period of grace after default, which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other Defaults, may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such Default, may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such Default or may limit the right of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any Series to waive such default;
provided
however
 
          (4) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency or correct or supplement any provision contained in this Indenture, in any supplemental indenture or in any Securities that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained therein;
          (5) to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holders of Securities of any Series;
          (6) to modify or amend this Indenture in such a manner as to permit the qualification of this Indenture or any supplemental indenture hereto under the TIA as then in effect;
          (7) to add or to change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide that Securities in bearer form may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal or premium with respect to Securities in registered form or of principal, premium or interest with respect to Securities in bearer form, or to permit Securities in registered form to be exchanged for Securities in bearer form, so as to not adversely affect the interests of the Holders or any coupons of any Series in any material respect or permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities of any Series in uncertificated form;
          (8) to secure or guarantee the Securities;
          (9) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
          (10) to add to, change, or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture with respect to one or more Series of Securities, so long as any such addition, change or elimination not otherwise permitted under this Indenture shall (A) neither apply to any Security of any Series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor modify the rights of the Holders of any such Security with respect to the benefit of such provision or (B) become effective only when there is no such Security outstanding;
          (11) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor or separate Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more Series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of this Indenture by more than one Trustee; or
          (12) to establish the form or terms of Securities and coupons of any Series pursuant to Article Two.
     Section 9.02 . The Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Securities of any Series without notice to any Holder but with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each Series then outstanding (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Securities) affected by such amendment. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment may not:
With Consent of Holders
          (1) change the maturity of any payment of principal of, or any premium on, or any installment of interest on any Security;
 
          (2) reduce the principal amount of any Security, or the interest thereon, or any premium on any Security upon redemption or upon repayment at the option of the Holder or add provisions with respect to the redemption of the Securities;
          (3) change the Company's obligation to pay additional amounts;
          (4) change any place of payment where, or the currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest is payable;
          (5) impair the right to sue for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to any Security;
          (6) reduce the percentage in principal amount of outstanding Securities required to consent to any supplemental indenture, any waiver of compliance with provisions of this Indenture or specific defaults and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or otherwise modify the sections in this Indenture relating to these consents;
          (7) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities (except a rescission of acceleration of the Securities by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Securities and a waiver of the payment default that resulted from such acceleration);
          (8) make any change in the provisions of this Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of Securities to receive payments of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on the Securities;
          (9) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Security; or
          (10) make any change in or hereof or in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions.
Section 6.04
Section 6.07
     It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof. After an amendment under this Section becomes effective, the Company shall mail to all affected Holders a notice briefly describing such amendment. The failure to give such notice to all such Holders, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of an amendment under this Section.
     Section 9.03 . Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Securities shall comply with the TIA as then in effect.
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act
     Section 9.04 . A consent to an amendment or a waiver by a Holder of a Security shall bind the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent or waiver is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent or waiver as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver
Revocation and Effect of Consents and Waivers
 
becomes effective. After an amendment or waiver becomes effective, it shall bind every Holder. An amendment or waiver becomes effective once both (i) the requisite number of consents have been received by the Company or the Trustee and (ii) such amendment or waiver has been executed by the Company and the Trustee.
     The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to give their consent or take any other action described above or required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, then notwithstanding the immediately preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to give such consent or to revoke any consent previously given or to take any such action, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 120 days after such record date.
     Section 9.05 . If an amendment changes the terms of a Security, the Company may require the Holder of the Security to deliver it to the Trustee. The Trustee may place an appropriate notation on the Security regarding the changed terms and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company or the Trustee so determines, the Company in exchange for the Security shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a new Security that reflects the changed terms. Failure to make the appropriate notation or to issue a new Security shall not affect the validity of such amendment.
Notation on or Exchange of Securities
     Section 9.06 . The Trustee shall sign any amendment authorized pursuant to this Article Nine if the amendment does not adversely affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may but need not sign it. In signing such amendment the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to ) shall be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by , an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
Trustee to Sign Amendments
Section 7.02
Section 10.04
     Section 9.07 . Neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company shall, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration, whether by way of interest, fee or otherwise, to any Holder for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture or the Securities unless such consideration is offered to be paid to all Holders, ratably, that so consent, waive or agree to amend in the time frame set forth in solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement.
Payment for Consent
     Section 10.01 . If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
     Section 10.02 . Any notice or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first-class mail addressed as follows:
Notices
     If to the Company:
 
Seven Sylvan Way Parsippany, New Jersey 07054 (Fax: (973) 753-6496) Attention: Legal Department
If to the Trustee:
U.S. Bank National Association Attn: Corporate Trust Services 100 Wall Street, 16th Floor New York, New York 10005 (Fax: (212) 361-6153)
     The Company or the Trustee by notice to the other may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
     Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed to the Holder at the Holder's address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
     Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
     Section 10.03 . Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
Communication by Holders with Other Holders
     Section 10.04 . Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take or refrain from taking any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent
          (1) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
          (2) an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
     Section 10.05 . Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion
          (1) a statement that the individual making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
          (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
          (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
          (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such individual, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
     Section 10.06 . The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Holders. The Registrar and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent and Registrar
     Section 10.07 . A "Legal Holiday" is a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in New York State are authorized or required by law to close. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday, payment shall be made on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period. If a record date is a Legal Holiday, the record date shall not be affected.
Legal Holidays
     Section 10.08 . THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
Governing Law
     Section 10.09 . A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of any Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. This waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issuance of the Securities.
No Recourse Against Others
     Section 10.10 . All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successors.
Successors
     Section 10.11 . The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy of the Indenture is enough to prove this Indenture.
Multiple Originals
     Section 10.12 . The table of contents, cross-reference sheet and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not intended to be considered a part hereof and shall not modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Table of Contents; Headings
 
     Section 10.13 . If any provision in this Indenture is deemed unenforceable, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision set forth herein, or of the Indenture as a whole.
Severability
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first written above.
WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORPORATION

 
EXHIBIT 4.2
Rule 144A Global Security
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL BECAUSE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER
 
PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
     THIS SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (A) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.04 OF THE INDENTURE, (B) THIS SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.15(B) OF THE INDENTURE, (C) THIS SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.13 OF THE INDENTURE AND (D) EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.15(B) OF THE INDENTURE, THIS SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY (X) BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, (Y) BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR (Z) BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
 
promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of seven hundred ninety-eight million seven hundred fifty thousand United States Dollars ($798,750,000) as such amount may be adjusted as set forth on the Schedule of Exchanges, Redemptions, Repurchases, Cancellations and Transfers annexed hereto on December 1, 2016.
Interest Payment Dates: June 1 and December 1, commencing June 1, 2007.
Records Dates: May 15 and November 15.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
          This is one of the Notes referred to in the Indenture.
Dated: December 5, 2006
 
1.
Indenture
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company, designated as its 6.00% Senior Notes due 2016 (herein called the "Notes," which expression includes any further notes issued as described in Section 9 below and forming a single series therewith), issued and to be issued under an indenture, dated as of December 5, 2006 (herein called the "Indenture"), between WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (such company, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the "Company"), and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as trustee (the "Trustee"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relevant to the Notes reference is hereby made for a complete description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Note shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.
     Each Note is subject to, and qualified by, all such terms as set forth in the Indenture certain of which are summarized herein and each Holder of a Note is referred to the corresponding provisions of the Indenture for a complete statement of such terms. To the extent that there is any inconsistency between the summary provisions set forth in the Notes and the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern.
2.
Interest
     (a) The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum shown above. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2007, to the Holders of record on the immediately preceding May 15 or November 15 (each a "Record Date"). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from December 5, 2006. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
     The period beginning on, and including, December 5, 2006 and ending on, but excluding, the next Interest Payment Date thereafter, and each successive six-month period beginning on, and including, an Interest Payment Date and ending on, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date is herein called an "Interest Period."
     (b) Additional Interest. The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 5, 2006, between the Company and the initial purchasers named therein (the "Registration Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this paragraph (b) but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Agreement. In the event that neither the Registered Exchange Offer has been consummated nor the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective on or prior to the 360th day following the date of the original issuance of the Notes (each such event referred to as a
 
"Registration Default"), interest (the "Additional Interest") shall accrue (in addition to stated interest on the Notes) from and including the date on which the first such Registration Default shall occur to but excluding the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured, at a rate per annum equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the Notes; provided, however, that such rate per annum shall increase by 0.25% per annum from and including the 90th day after the first such Registration Default (and each successive 90th day thereafter) unless and until all Registration Defaults have been cured; provided further, however, that in no event shall the Additional Interest accrue at a rate in excess of 1.00% per annum. The Additional Interest will be payable in cash semi-annually in arrears each June 1 and December 1.
3.
Paying Agent, Registrar and Service Agent
     Initially, the Trustee will act as paying agent, registrar and service agent. The Company may appoint and change any paying agent, registrar or co-registrar and service agent without notice. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as paying agent, registrar, co-registrar or service agent.
4.
Defaults and Remedies; Waiver
     If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes, subject to certain limitations, may declare all the Notes due and payable immediately. In the case of an Event of Default resulting from certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization, the principal of (or such specified amount) and premium, if any, on all outstanding Notes will become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes.
     Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnification. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power under the Indenture.
     At any time after the principal of the Notes shall have been so declared due and payable (or have become immediately due and payable), and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding under the Indenture, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Notes and the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any and all Notes that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate per annum expressed in the Notes to the date of such payment or deposit) and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.07 of the Indenture and (ii) any and all existing Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to the Notes, other than the nonpayment of principal of Notes that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.04 of
 
the Indenture. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
     The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes by notice to the Trustee may waive an existing Default and its consequences except a Default in the payment of the principal amount of, premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on a Note. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right.
5.
Amendment
     In addition to any supplemental indenture otherwise authorized by the Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into supplemental indentures (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect), without the consent of any Holder of Notes, for one or more of the following purposes: (i) to evidence the succession of another person to the Company and the assumption by such successor of the Company's covenants, agreements and obligations; (ii) to provide for the issuance of additional Notes in accordance with the limitations set forth in the Indenture; (iii) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company by the Indenture, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions for the protection of the Holders of all or any Notes as the Board of Directors of the Company shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of such Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in respect of any such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions a Default or an Event of Default under the Indenture; , , that with respect to any such additional covenant, restriction, condition or provision, such amendment may provide for a period of grace after default, which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other Defaults, may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such Default, may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such Default or may limit the right of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes to waive such default; (iv) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency or correct or supplement any provision contained in the Indenture, in any supplemental indenture or in any Notes that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained therein; (v) to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under the Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holders of Notes; (vi) to modify or amend the Indenture in such a manner as to permit the qualification of the Indenture or any supplemental indenture thereto under the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect; (vii) to add or to change any of the provisions of the Indenture to provide that Notes in bearer form may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal or premium with respect to Notes in registered form or of principal, premium or interest with respect to Notes in bearer form, or to permit Notes in registered form to be exchanged for Notes in bearer form, so as to not adversely affect the interests of the Holders or any coupons in any material respect or permit or facilitate the issuance of Notes in uncertificated form; (viii) to secure or guarantee the Notes; (ix) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder; (x) to add to, change, or eliminate any of the provisions of the Indenture with respect to the Notes, so long as any such addition, change or elimination not otherwise permitted under the Indenture shall (A) neither apply to any Note created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such
provided
however
 
provision nor modify the rights of the Holders of any such Note with respect to the benefit of such provision or (B) become effective only when there is no such Note outstanding; or (xi) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor or separate Trustee with respect to the Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the Indenture by more than one Trustee.
     With the written consent (as evidenced as provided in Section 9.02 of the Indenture) of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding affected by such amendment (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes), the Company and the Trustee, may amend the Indenture without notice to any Holder; that no such amendment shall, without the consent of the Holders of each Note then outstanding and affected thereby, (i) change the percentage of principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, modification, supplement or waiver; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest on any Note; (iii) reduce the principal of or extend the Stated Maturity of any Note; (iv) reduce the amount payable upon the redemption of any Note or add redemption provisions to any Note; (v) make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Note; or (vi) make any change in the Sections of the Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults and the rights of Holders to receive payments, or in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
provided
     Any consent to an amendment or a waiver by the Holder of this Note (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Note and any Notes that may be issued in exchange or substitution hereof, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this Note or such other Notes. Any Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke its consent if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver becomes effective. Neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company shall, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration, whether by way of interest, fee or otherwise, to any Holder for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of the Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid to all Holders, ratably, that so consent, waive or agree to amend.
6.
Obligations Absolute
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the place, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
7.
Sinking Fund
     The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
 
8.
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
     The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000 in addition thereto. When Notes are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same Series, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture, without payment of any service charge but with payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration or exchange of Notes.
     The Company and the Registrar shall not be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes of that Series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing or (b) to register the transfer or exchange of Notes of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Securities selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
9.
Further Issues
     The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes and in accordance with the Indenture, create and issue further notes having the same terms and conditions as the Notes in all respects (or in all respects except for the first payment of interest) so as to form a single series with the Notes.
10.
Optional Redemption
     The Notes may be redeemed at the Company's option, upon notice as set forth in the Indenture, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (A) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, (B) the Make-Whole Amount, if any, described below and (C) any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to the redemption date; that if the date fixed for redemption is a date on or after the Record Date and on or before the next following Interest Payment Date, then the interest payable on such date shall be paid to the Holder of record on the relevant Record Date.
provided
     "Make-Whole Amount" means the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the date of the redemption of the principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semi-annual basis, the remaining principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate described below (determined on the third business day preceding the date fixed for redemption) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable if the redemption had not been made, to the date of redemption, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of such Notes.
     "Reinvestment Rate" means (i) the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month)
 
corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the payment date of the principal being redeemed or paid, plus (ii) 0.25%. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the maturity would be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate would be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment Rate.
     The Make-Whole Amount will be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company. If the Company fails to make the appointment at least 30 business days prior to the date of redemption, or if the institution is unwilling or unable to make the calculation, the calculation will be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee.
     If the Reinvestment Rate is not available as described above, the Reinvestment Rate will be calculated by interpolation or extrapolation of comparable rates selected by the independent investment banking institution.
     In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal U.S. national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes are listed or, if they are not listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion deems to be fair and appropriate.
11.
Persons Deemed Owners
     The ownership of Notes shall be proved by the register maintained by the Registrar.
12.
No Recourse Against Others
     A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of any Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. This waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
13.
Discharge and Defeasance
     Subject to certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Company at any time may terminate some or all of its obligations under the Notes and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee money and/or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes to redemption or maturity, as the case may be.
14.
Unclaimed Money
     Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note
 
and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust. Thereafter the Holder of such Note shall look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
15.
Trustee Dealings with the Company
     Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-paying agent may do the same with like rights.
16.
Abbreviations
     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
17.
CUSIP Numbers
     Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
18.
Rule 144A Information
     The Company will furnish to Holders of the Notes and to prospective investors, upon request, any information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act so long as the Notes are not freely transferable under the Securities Act.
19.
Change of Control Offer
     Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes, each Holder will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer") at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of
 
Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture and described in such notice. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this provision, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this provision by virtue of such conflict.
     On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company and the amount to be paid by the Paying Agent. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered by such Holder, if any; in denominations as set forth in the Indenture. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date. The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third Person makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this provision applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
     The Company's obligation to repurchase Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer shall terminate following a Covenant Defeasance pursuant to Section 8.03 of the Indenture.
     "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
     "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (ii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of the Company's Capital Stock entitled to vote generally in elections of directors; or (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
 
     "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
     "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the Indenture; or (ii) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election.
     "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
     "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
     "Rating Agencies" means (i) each of Moody's and S&P; and (ii) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a Board Resolution) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
     "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
20.
Governing Law
     THE INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
     
The Company will furnish to any Holder of Notes upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture.
 
     For value received hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto (please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                    
                    
                    
     In connection with any transfer of the within Note prior to the date that is two years after the date of original issuance of such Note, the undersigned confirms that such Note is being transferred:
     Unless one of the boxes above is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the within Notes in the name of any person other than the registered Holder thereof (or hereof); , , that the Trustee may, in its sole discretion, register the transfer of such Notes if it has received such certifications, legal opinions and/or other information as the Company has required to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
provided
however
     In addition, if box (3) or (4) is checked, the Holder must furnish to the Trustee certifications, legal opinions or other information as it or the Company may require to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Dated:___________________
Signature(s)
Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an eligible Guarantor Institution (banks, stock brokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions) with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 17Ad-15.
__________________________ Signature Guarantee
 
TO BE COMPLETED BY PURCHASER IF (2) ABOVE IS CHECKED.
     The undersigned represents and warrants that it is purchasing this Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and is aware that the sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigned's foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
_________________________ Signature
Dated:__________________
 
     The initial principal amount of this Global Note is $798,750,000. The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
U.S. Bank National Association Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     In connection with our proposed sale of $aggregate principal amount of the Securities, we confirm that such sale has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation S under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, we represent that:
                    
     (a) the offer of the Securities was not made to a person in the United States;
     (b) either (i) at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States or (ii) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated off-shore securities market and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction has been pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
     (c) no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable; and
     (d) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
     In addition, if the sale is being made during a restricted period, we represent that the sale is not being made to a United States person or for the account or benefit of a United States person.
     You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. Terms used in this certificate have the meanings set forth in Regulation S.
     Very truly yours,
     TRANSFEREE:__________________________
     BY:____________________________________
 
Regulation S Global Security
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL BECAUSE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS 40 DAYS AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER
 
PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/ OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER HEREOF REPRESENTS THAT IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON NOR IS IT PURCHASING FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
     THIS SECURITY IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS SECURITY) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT (A) THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.04 OF THE INDENTURE, (B) THIS SECURITY MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.15(B) OF THE INDENTURE, (C) THIS SECURITY MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.13 OF THE INDENTURE AND (D) EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.15(B) OF THE INDENTURE, THIS SECURITY MAY BE TRANSFERRED, IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY (X) BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY, (Y) BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR (Z) BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.
 
promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of one million two hundred fifty thousand United States Dollars ($1,250,000) as such amount may be adjusted as set forth on the Schedule of Exchanges, Redemptions, Repurchases, Cancellations and Transfers annexed hereto on December 1, 2016.
Interest Payment Dates: June 1 and December 1, commencing June 1, 2007.
Records Dates: May 15 and November 15.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
          This is one of the Notes referred to in the Indenture.
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
Dated: December 5, 2006
 
1.
Indenture
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company, designated as its 6.00% Senior Notes due 2016 (herein called the "Notes," which expression includes any further notes issued as described in Section 9 below and forming a single series therewith), issued and to be issued under an indenture, dated as of December 5, 2006 (herein called the "Indenture"), between WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (such company, and its successors and assigns under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, being herein called the "Company"), and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as trustee (the "Trustee"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relevant to the Notes reference is hereby made for a complete description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Note shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.
     Each Note is subject to, and qualified by, all such terms as set forth in the Indenture certain of which are summarized herein and each Holder of a Note is referred to the corresponding provisions of the Indenture for a complete statement of such terms. To the extent that there is any inconsistency between the summary provisions set forth in the Notes and the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern.
2.
Interest
     (a) The Company promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at the rate per annum shown above. The Company will pay interest semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing June 1, 2007, to the Holders of record on the immediately preceding May 15 or November 15 (each a "Record Date"). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from December 5, 2006. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
     The period beginning on, and including, December 5, 2006 and ending on, but excluding, the next Interest Payment Date thereafter, and each successive six-month period beginning on, and including, an Interest Payment Date and ending on, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date is herein called an "Interest Period."
     (b) Additional Interest. The Holder of this Note is entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 5, 2006, between the Company and the initial purchasers named therein (the "Registration Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this paragraph (b) but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Agreement. In the event that neither the Registered Exchange Offer has been consummated nor the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective on or prior to the 360th day following the date of the original issuance of the Notes (each such event referred to as a
 
"Registration Default"), interest (the "Additional Interest") shall accrue (in addition to stated interest on the Notes) from and including the date on which the first such Registration Default shall occur to but excluding the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured, at a rate per annum equal to 0.25% of the principal amount of the Notes; provided, however, that such rate per annum shall increase by 0.25% per annum from and including the 90th day after the first such Registration Default (and each successive 90th day thereafter) unless and until all Registration Defaults have been cured; provided further, however, that in no event shall the Additional Interest accrue at a rate in excess of 1.00% per annum. The Additional Interest will be payable in cash semi-annually in arrears each June 1 and December 1.
3.
Paying Agent, Registrar and Service Agent
     Initially, the Trustee will act as paying agent, registrar and service agent. The Company may appoint and change any paying agent, registrar or co-registrar and service agent without notice. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as paying agent, registrar, co-registrar or service agent.
4.
Defaults and Remedies; Waiver
     If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes, subject to certain limitations, may declare all the Notes due and payable immediately. In the case of an Event of Default resulting from certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization, the principal of (or such specified amount) and premium, if any, on all outstanding Notes will become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any Holder of outstanding Notes.
     Holders of Notes may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Notes unless it receives reasonable indemnification. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power under the Indenture.
     At any time after the principal of the Notes shall have been so declared due and payable (or have become immediately due and payable), and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding under the Indenture, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if (i) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest upon all the Notes and the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any and all Notes that shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that such payment is enforceable under applicable law, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate per annum expressed in the Notes to the date of such payment or deposit) and the amount payable to the Trustee under Section 7.07 of the Indenture and (ii) any and all existing Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to the Notes, other than the nonpayment of principal of Notes that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived as provided in Section 6.04 of
 
the Indenture. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
     The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes by notice to the Trustee may waive an existing Default and its consequences except a Default in the payment of the principal amount of, premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest on a Note. When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right.
5.
Amendment
     In addition to any supplemental indenture otherwise authorized by the Indenture, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into supplemental indentures (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect), without the consent of any Holder of Notes, for one or more of the following purposes: (i) to evidence the succession of another person to the Company and the assumption by such successor of the Company's covenants, agreements and obligations; (ii) to provide for the issuance of additional Notes in accordance with the limitations set forth in the Indenture; (iii) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company by the Indenture, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions for the protection of the Holders of all or any Notes as the Board of Directors of the Company shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders of such Notes, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in respect of any such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions a Default or an Event of Default under the Indenture; , , that with respect to any such additional covenant, restriction, condition or provision, such amendment may provide for a period of grace after default, which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other Defaults, may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such Default, may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such Default or may limit the right of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes to waive such default; (iv) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency or correct or supplement any provision contained in the Indenture, in any supplemental indenture or in any Notes that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained therein; (v) to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under the Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holders of Notes; (vi) to modify or amend the Indenture in such a manner as to permit the qualification of the Indenture or any supplemental indenture thereto under the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect; (vii) to add or to change any of the provisions of the Indenture to provide that Notes in bearer form may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal or premium with respect to Notes in registered form or of principal, premium or interest with respect to Notes in bearer form, or to permit Notes in registered form to be exchanged for Notes in bearer form, so as to not adversely affect the interests of the Holders or any coupons in any material respect or permit or facilitate the issuance of Notes in uncertificated form; (viii) to secure or guarantee the Notes; (ix) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder; (x) to add to, change, or eliminate any of the provisions of the Indenture with respect to the Notes, so long as any such addition, change or elimination not otherwise permitted under the Indenture shall (A) neither apply to any Note created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such
provided
however
 
provision nor modify the rights of the Holders of any such Note with respect to the benefit of such provision or (B) become effective only when there is no such Note outstanding; or (xi) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor or separate Trustee with respect to the Notes and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the Indenture by more than one Trustee.
     With the written consent (as evidenced as provided in Section 9.02 of the Indenture) of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Notes at the time outstanding affected by such amendment (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for the Notes), the Company and the Trustee, may amend the Indenture without notice to any Holder; that no such amendment shall, without the consent of the Holders of each Note then outstanding and affected thereby, (i) change the percentage of principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, modification, supplement or waiver; (ii) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest on any Note; (iii) reduce the principal of or extend the Stated Maturity of any Note; (iv) reduce the amount payable upon the redemption of any Note or add redemption provisions to any Note; (v) make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Note; or (vi) make any change in the Sections of the Indenture relating to waivers of past Defaults and the rights of Holders to receive payments, or in the foregoing amendment and waiver provisions. It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
provided
     Any consent to an amendment or a waiver by the Holder of this Note (unless revoked as provided in the Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of this Note and any Notes that may be issued in exchange or substitution hereof, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this Note or such other Notes. Any Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke its consent if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment or waiver becomes effective. Neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company shall, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration, whether by way of interest, fee or otherwise, to any Holder for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of the Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid to all Holders, ratably, that so consent, waive or agree to amend.
6.
Obligations Absolute
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the place, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
7.
Sinking Fund
     The Notes will not have the benefit of any sinking fund.
 
8.
Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
     The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples of $1,000 in addition thereto. When Notes are presented to the Registrar or a co-registrar with a request to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of the same Series, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture, without payment of any service charge but with payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration or exchange of Notes.
     The Company and the Registrar shall not be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Notes of that Series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing or (b) to register the transfer or exchange of Notes of any Series selected, called or being called for redemption as a whole or the portion being redeemed of any such Securities selected, called or being called for redemption in part.
9.
Further Issues
     The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes and in accordance with the Indenture, create and issue further notes having the same terms and conditions as the Notes in all respects (or in all respects except for the first payment of interest) so as to form a single series with the Notes.
10.
Optional Redemption
     The Notes may be redeemed at the Company's option, upon notice as set forth in the Indenture, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (A) 100% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, (B) the Make-Whole Amount, if any, described below and (C) any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to the redemption date; that if the date fixed for redemption is a date on or after the Record Date and on or before the next following Interest Payment Date, then the interest payable on such date shall be paid to the Holder of record on the relevant Record Date.
provided
     "Make-Whole Amount" means the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the date of the redemption of the principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semi-annual basis, the remaining principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate described below (determined on the third business day preceding the date fixed for redemption) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable if the redemption had not been made, to the date of redemption, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of such Notes.
     "Reinvestment Rate" means (i) the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month)
 
corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the payment date of the principal being redeemed or paid, plus (ii) 0.25%. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the maturity would be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate would be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment Rate.
     The Make-Whole Amount will be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company. If the Company fails to make the appointment at least 30 business days prior to the date of redemption, or if the institution is unwilling or unable to make the calculation, the calculation will be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee.
     If the Reinvestment Rate is not available as described above, the Reinvestment Rate will be calculated by interpolation or extrapolation of comparable rates selected by the independent investment banking institution.
     In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal U.S. national securities exchange, if any, on which the Notes are listed or, if they are not listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion deems to be fair and appropriate.
11.
Persons Deemed Owners
     The ownership of Notes shall be proved by the register maintained by the Registrar.
12.
No Recourse Against Others
     A director, officer, employee or shareholder, as such, of any Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Note, each Holder shall waive and release all such liability. This waiver and release shall be part of the consideration for the issuance of the Notes.
13.
Discharge and Defeasance
     Subject to certain conditions set forth in the Indenture, the Company at any time may terminate some or all of its obligations under the Notes and the Indenture if the Company deposits with the Trustee money and/or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes to redemption or maturity, as the case may be.
14.
Unclaimed Money
     Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Note
 
and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on its request or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from such trust. Thereafter the Holder of such Note shall look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease.
15.
Trustee Dealings with the Company
     Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar or co-paying agent may do the same with like rights.
16.
Abbreviations
     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with rights of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
17.
CUSIP Numbers
     Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Company has caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and has directed the Trustee to use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
18.
Rule 144A Information
     The Company will furnish to Holders of the Notes and to prospective investors, upon request, any information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act so long as the Notes are not freely transferable under the Securities Act.
19.
Change of Control Offer
     Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes, each Holder will have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of each Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer") at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of
 
Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by the Indenture and described in such notice. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this provision, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this provision by virtue of such conflict.
     On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful, (i) accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered and (iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions thereof being purchased by the Company and the amount to be paid by the Paying Agent. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered by such Holder, if any; in denominations as set forth in the Indenture. The Company shall publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date. The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third Person makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this provision applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
     The Company's obligation to repurchase Notes pursuant to a Change of Control Offer shall terminate following a Covenant Defeasance pursuant to Section 8.03 of the Indenture.
     "Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of the Change of Control (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies).
     "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (i) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (ii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above), becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the total voting power of all shares of the Company's Capital Stock entitled to vote generally in elections of directors; or (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors.
 
     "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
     "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who (i) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the Indenture; or (ii) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election.
     "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P.
     "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
     "Rating Agencies" means (i) each of Moody's and S&P; and (ii) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a Board Resolution) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
     "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
20.
Governing Law
     THE INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
     
The Company will furnish to any Holder of Notes upon written request and without charge to the Holder a copy of the Indenture.
 
     For value received hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto (please insert social security or other identifying number of assignee) the within Note, and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints attorney to transfer the said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                    
                    
                    
     In connection with any transfer of the within Note prior to the date that is 40 days after the date of original issuance of such Note, the undersigned confirms that such Note is being transferred:
     Unless one of the boxes above is checked, the Trustee will refuse to register any of the within Notes in the name of any person other than the registered Holder thereof (or hereof); , , that the Trustee may, in its sole discretion, register the transfer of such Notes if it has received such certifications, legal opinions and/or other information as the Company has required to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
provided
however
     In addition, if box (3) or (4) is checked, the Holder must furnish to the Trustee certifications, legal opinions or other information as it or the Company may require to confirm that such transfer is being made pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Dated:___________________
Signature(s)
Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an eligible Guarantor Institution (banks, stock brokers, savings and loan associations and credit unions) with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 17Ad-15.
__________________________ Signature Guarantee
 
TO BE COMPLETED BY PURCHASER IF (2) ABOVE IS CHECKED.
     The undersigned represents and warrants that it is purchasing this Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and is aware that the sale is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as the undersigned has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon the undersigned's foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A.
__________________________ Signature
Dated:__________________
 
     The initial principal amount of this Global Note is $1,250,000. The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
U.S. Bank National Association Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     In connection with our proposed sale of $ aggregate principal amount of the Securities, we confirm that such sale has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation S under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, we represent that:
                    
     (a) the offer of the Securities was not made to a person in the United States;
     (b) either (i) at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States or (ii) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated off-shore securities market and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction has been pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
     (c) no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S, as applicable; and
     (d) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
     In addition, if the sale is being made during a restricted period, we represent that the sale is not being made to a United States person or for the account or benefit of a United States person.
     You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. Terms used in this certificate have the meanings set forth in Regulation S.
     Very truly yours,
     TRANSFEREE:___________________________
     BY:_____________________________________

 
EXHIBIT 4.3
     THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of December 5, 2006, by and among WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. and J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC., in their respective capacities as initial purchasers and as representatives of each of the other initial purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers").
     This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement dated November 30, 2006, by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the "Purchase Agreement"), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $800,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.00% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "Securities"). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and in satisfaction of a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligations thereunder, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their respective direct and indirect transferees and assigns the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.
     In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. . As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     "1933 Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
     "1934 Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
     "Closing Date" shall mean the Closing Date as defined in the Purchase Agreement.
     "Company" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and also includes the Company's successors.
     "Depositary" shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, including any agent thereof; , that any such depositary must at all times have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in The City of New York.
provided, however
     "Exchange Dates" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
     "Exchange Offer" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
     "Exchange Offer Registration" shall mean a registration under the 1933 Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
 
     "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 covering the Registrable Securities (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
     "Exchange Securities" shall mean the senior notes issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Securities (except for (i) transfer restrictions which shall not exist on the senior notes issued and (ii) certain provisions relating to an increase in the stated rate of interest in connection with rights under this Agreement) to be offered to Holders of Registrable Securities in exchange for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Securities will be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
     "Holders" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Securities, and each of their respective successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become beneficial owners of Registrable Securities under the Indenture; that for purposes of Section 5 of this Agreement "Holders" shall include Participating Broker-Dealers.
provided
     "Indenture" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities dated as of December 5, 2006 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee") and as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
     "Initial Purchasers" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
     "Majority Holders" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities outstanding; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or any of its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) (other than the Initial Purchasers or subsequent holders of Registrable Securities, if such subsequent holders are deemed to be such affiliates solely by reason of their holding of such Registrable Securities) shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount.
provided
     "NASD" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
     "Participating Broker-Dealer" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(f).
     "Person" shall mean an individual, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
     "Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement,
 
and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein.
     "Purchase Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
     "Registrable Securities" shall mean the Securities; , that the Securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (i) a Registration Statement with respect to such Securities shall have been declared effective under the 1933 Act and such Securities shall have been disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) when such Securities are eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144(k) (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, (iii) all the Securities shall have been sold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, (iv) all the Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding or (v) such Securities have been exchanged for Exchange Securities upon consummation of the Exchange Offer.
provided, however
     "Registration Expenses" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or NASD registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state or other securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of the NASD (including reasonable fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel for any underwriters or Holders (whose counsel shall be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Registrable Securities to be registered in the applicable Registration Statement) solely in connection with state or other securities or blue sky qualification of any of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements, certificates representing the Exchange Securities and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Exchange Securities or such Registrable Securities, covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, on any securities exchange or exchanges, (vi) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, (viii) the fees and expenses of a "qualified independent underwriter" as defined by Conduct Rule 2720 of the NASD (if required by the NASD rules) in connection with the offering of the Registrable Securities and the reasonable fees and expenses of its counsel, (ix) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee, any registrar, any depositary and paying agent, including their respective counsel, and any escrow agent or custodian, (x) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the reasonable fees and expenses incurred in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement of one counsel to the Holders chosen by the Majority Holders in writing, and (xi) the reasonable fees and disbursements of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "comfort" letters required by or incident to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, but excluding any and all fees and expenses of advisors or counsel to the underwriters (other than fees and expenses set forth in clause (ii) above) or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions, brokerage commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder but excluding (except as otherwise provided herein) fees of counsel to the
 
underwriters or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions and any transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities by a Holder.
     "Registration Statement" shall mean any registration statement of the Company relating to any offering of the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
     "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     "Shelf Additional Interest Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(e) hereof.
     "Shelf Registration" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
     "Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2(b) of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
     "Staff" shall mean the staff of the SEC.
     "Trustee" shall mean the trustee under the Indenture.
     2. 
Registration Under the 1933 Act
     (a) . To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretations of the Staff, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) file with the SEC an Exchange Offer Registration Statement covering an offer to the Holders to exchange all the Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities and (ii) have such Registration Statement remain effective until 180 days after the last Exchange Date for use by one or more Participating Broker-Dealers. The Company shall commence the Exchange Offer promptly after the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC and use its reasonable best efforts to complete the Exchange Offer not later than 60 days after such effective date, and within 360 days after the Closing Date.
Exchange Offer Registration
     In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
     (i) mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
     (ii) keep the Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 business days (or longer if required by applicable federal and state securities laws) after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (the "Exchange Dates");
 
     (iii) use the services of the Depositary for the Exchange Offer with respect to Securities evidenced by global certificates;
     (iv) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Registrable Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York City time, on the last Exchange Date, by sending to the institution specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Securities delivered for exchange, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Securities exchanged; and
     (v) otherwise comply in all material respects with all applicable federal and state securities laws relating to the Exchange Offer.
     As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
     (i) accept for exchange Registrable Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which is an exhibit thereto;
     (ii) deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Securities so accepted for exchange by the Company; and
     (iii) cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Exchange Securities to each Holder of Registrable Securities equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Registrable Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
     Interest on each Exchange Security will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Registrable Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Registrable Securities, from the Closing Date. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than (i) that the Exchange Offer, or the making of any exchange by a Holder, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the Staff, (ii) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or before any governmental agency with respect to the Exchange Offer which, in the Company's judgment, would impair the ability of the Company to proceed with the Exchange Offer, (iii) that no law, rule or regulation or applicable interpretation of the Staff has been issued or promulgated which, in the good faith determination of the Company, does not permit the Company to effect the Exchange Offer and (iv) that the Holders tender the Registrable Securities to the Company in accordance with the Exchange Offer.
     As a condition to participating in the Exchange Offer, each Holder of Registrable Securities (other than Participating Broker-Dealers) who wishes to exchange such Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities in the Exchange Offer shall have represented to the Company that (i) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) of the Company or, if it is an affiliate, it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the 1933 Act, to the extent applicable, (ii) any Exchange Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of business, (iii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Securities or the Exchange Securities, (iv) it is not acting on behalf of any
 
person who could not truthfully make the foregoing representations and (v) it shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or another appropriate form under the 1933 Act available or for the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective. To the extent permitted by law, the Company shall inform the Initial Purchasers of the names and addresses of the Holders to whom the Exchange Offer is made, and the Initial Purchasers shall have the right to contact such Holders and otherwise facilitate the tender of Registrable Securities in the Exchange Offer.
     (b) 
Shelf Registration
     (i) If, because of any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Staff, the Company is not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2(a) hereof, (ii) if for any other reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 360 days after the Closing Date or (iii) upon the written request of any of the Initial Purchasers within 90 days following the consummation of the Exchange Offer; that such Initial Purchaser shall hold Registrable Securities that it acquired directly from the Company and if such Initial Purchaser is not permitted, in the reasonable opinion of counsel to such Initial Purchaser, pursuant to applicable law or applicable interpretation of the Staff, to participate in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall, at its cost:
provided
          (A) file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Securities by the Holders from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement;
          (B) use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC as promptly as practicable; that, with respect to Exchange Securities received by a broker-dealer in exchange for any securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the Staff, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Regulation S-K Items 507 and/or 508, as applicable, in satisfaction of its obligations under paragraph (A) solely with respect to broker-dealers who acquired their Securities as a result of market-making or other trading activities, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement. In the event that the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement upon the request of any Initial Purchaser pursuant to clause (iii) above, the Company shall file and use its reasonable best efforts to have declared effective by the SEC both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Securities held by such Holder or such Initial Purchaser, as applicable, after completion of the Exchange Offer;
provided
 
          (C) use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years after its effective date or such shorter period which will terminate when all of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement (i) have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) cease to be outstanding or (iii) become eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act without volume restrictions; and
          (D) notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, ensure that (i) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming a part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) any Prospectus forming part of any Shelf Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time), does not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; , clauses (ii) and (iii) shall not apply to any information relating to any Initial Purchaser or any Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser or Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement.
provided, however
     The Company shall only permit Registrable Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
     The Company further agrees, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement if reasonably requested by the Majority Holders with respect to information relating to the Holders and otherwise as required by Section 3(b) below, to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective and such Shelf Registration Statement to become usable as soon as practicable thereafter and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
     (c) . The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Sections 2(a) and 2(b). Each Holder shall pay all expenses of its counsel other than as set forth in the preceding sentence, underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
Expenses
     (d) 
Effective Registration Statement
     (i) The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, to become, or to remain, effective during the requisite periods set forth herein if the Company voluntarily takes any action that could reasonably be
 
expected to result in any such Registration Statement not being declared effective or remaining effective or in the Holders of Registrable Securities covered thereby not being able to exchange or offer and sell such Registrable Securities during that period unless (A) such action is required by applicable law or (B) such action is taken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (but not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets or a material corporate transaction or event so long as the Company promptly complies with the requirements of Section 3(k) hereof, if applicable.
     (ii) An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof shall not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC or is automatically effective upon filing with the SEC as provided by Rule 462 under the 1933 Act.
     (iii) During any 365-day period, the Company may suspend the availability of a Shelf Registration Statement and the use of the related Prospectus, as provided in Section 3(e)(vi) and the last paragraph of Section 3 hereof, for up to four periods of up to 45 consecutive days (except for the consecutive 45-day period immediately prior to maturity of the Securities), but no more than an aggregate 90 days during any 365-day period, if any event shall occur (A) as set forth in Section 2(d)(i) or (B) as a result of which it shall be necessary, in the good faith determination of the board of directors of the Company, to amend the Shelf Registration Statement or amend or supplement any prospectus or prospectus supplement thereunder in order that each such document not include any untrue statement of fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made.
     (e) . In the event that either the Exchange Offer is not completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required pursuant to Section 2(b)(i) or 2(b)(ii) hereof, does not become effective on or prior to the date that is 360 days after the Closing Date (the "Target Registration Date"), the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period commencing immediately following the Target Registration Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Exchange Offer is completed or the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum. In the event that the Company receives a Shelf Request pursuant to Section 2(b)(iii), and the Shelf Registration Statement required to be filed thereby has not become effective by the later of the date (x) 360 days after the Closing Date or (y) 90 days after the delivery of such Shelf Request (such later date, the "Shelf Additional Interest Date"), then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period payable commencing from one day after the Shelf Additional Interest Date and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period, in each case until the Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or the Securities become freely tradable under the Securities Act, up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum. If the Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has become effective and thereafter either ceases to be effective or the Prospectus contained
Increase in Interest Rate
 
therein ceases to be usable, in each case whether or not permitted by this Agreement, at any time during the Shelf Effectiveness Period, and such failure to remain effective or usable exists for more than 30 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12-month period, then the interest rate on the Registrable Securities will be increased by (i) 0.25% per annum for the first 90-day period commencing immediately following such 30th day, and (ii) an additional 0.25% per annum with respect to each subsequent 90-day period up to a maximum increase of 1.00% per annum and ending on such date that the Shelf Registration Statement has again become effective or the Prospectus again becomes usable. Any event that causes an increase in the interest rate pursuant to this Section 2 is referred to as a "Registration Default."
     (f) In no event shall the interest rate on the Registrable Securities be increased by more than 1.00% per annum pursuant to Section 2(e) above.
     (g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the increased interest rate described in Section 2(e) above is the sole and exclusive remedy available to Holders due to a Registration Default, so long as the Company is acting in good faith hereunder, including, without limitation, with respect to satisfying its obligations.
     3. . In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Registration Statements pursuant to Sections 2(a) and 2(b) hereof, the Company shall as soon as practicable:
Registration Procedures
     (a) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form (i) shall be selected by the Company, (ii) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, be available for the sale of the Registrable Securities by the selling Holders thereof and (iii) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
     (b) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period; cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act; and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act with respect to the disposition of all Securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof;
     (c) in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Securities, at least 15 days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Registrable Securities is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of Registrable Securities will be made in accordance with the method elected by the Majority Holders; (ii) furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for the Holders and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as
 
such Holder or underwriter, or their counsel, may reasonably request, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so reasonably requests, all exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Securities; and (iii) subject to the last paragraph of this Section 3, hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
     (d) use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Securities covered by a Registration Statement and each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities shall reasonably request by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, to cooperate with the Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with the NASD, keep each such registration or qualification effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be effective and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such Holder to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Securities owned by such Holder; , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d) or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction;
provided, however
     (e) in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Securities and counsel for such Holders promptly and, if requested by such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to such offering cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (v) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (vi) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective (including as contemplated in Section 2(d)(iii) hereof) which (A) is contemplated in Section 2(d)(i) or (B) makes any statement made in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (vii) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate;
 
     (f) (A) in the case of an Exchange Offer, (i) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a "Plan of Distribution" section covering the use of the Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by broker-dealers who have exchanged their Registrable Securities for Exchange Securities for the resale of such Exchange Securities, (ii) furnish to each broker-dealer who desires to participate in the Exchange Offer, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such broker-dealer may reasonably request, (iii) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a statement that any broker-dealer who holds Registrable Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (a "Participating Broker-Dealer"), and who receives Exchange Securities for Registrable Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer, may be a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities, (iv) subject to the last paragraph of this Section 3, hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any broker-dealer in connection with the sale or transfer of the Exchange Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and (v) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Exchange Offer the following provision:
"If the undersigned is not a broker-dealer, the undersigned represents that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Securities. If the undersigned is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Securities, it represents that the Registrable Securities to be exchanged for Exchange Securities were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act;"
     (B) to the extent any Participating Broker-Dealer participates in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered at the request of an entity representing the Participating Broker-Dealers (which entity shall be Citigroup Global Markets Inc., unless it elects not to act as such representative) any "comfort" letters with respect to the Prospectus in the form existing on the last Exchange Date and with respect to each subsequent amendment or supplement, if any, effected during the period specified in clause (C) below;
     (C) to the extent any Participating Broker-Dealer participates in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of 180 days following the closing of the Exchange Offer or such shorter period which will terminate when the Participating Broker-Dealers have completed all resales subject to applicable prospectus delivery requirements; and
 
     (D) the Company shall not be required to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as would otherwise be contemplated by Section 3(b) hereof, or take any other action as a result of this Section 3(f), for a period exceeding 180 days after the last Exchange Date (as such period may be extended by the Company) and Participating Broker-Dealers shall not be authorized by the Company to, and shall not, deliver such Prospectus after such period in connection with resales contemplated by this Section 3;
     (g) (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, furnish counsel for the Initial Purchasers and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities copies of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information;
     (h) make every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement as soon as practicable and provide immediate notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order;
     (i) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
     (j) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and cause such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request in writing at least one business day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Securities;
     (k) in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Section 3(e)(vi) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Company agrees to notify each Holder to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and each Holder hereby agrees to suspend use of the Prospectus until the Company has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such numbers of copies of the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
 
     (l) obtain CUSIP numbers, ISINs and common codes for all Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for the Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary;
     (m) (i) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), in connection with the registration of the Exchange Securities, or Registrable Securities, as the case may be, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and (iii) execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
     (n) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (including underwriting agreements) and take all other customary and appropriate actions (including those reasonably requested by the Majority Holders of the Registrable Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities and in such connection, whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten registration, in a manner that is reasonable and customary:
     (i) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of such Registrable Securities and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in similar underwritten offerings as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
     (ii) obtain an opinion of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which opinion (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters, if any, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in sales of securities or underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
     (iii) obtain "comfort" letters and updates thereof from the Company's independent certified public accountants addressed to the underwriters, if any, and will use reasonable best efforts to have such letters addressed to the selling Holders of Registrable Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "comfort" letters to underwriters in connection with similar underwritten offerings;
     (iv) enter into a securities sales agreement with the Holders and an agent of the Holders providing for, among other things, the appointment of such agent for the selling Holders for the purpose of soliciting purchases of Registrable Securities, which agreement shall be in form, substance and scope customary for similar offerings;
 
     (v) if an underwriting agreement is entered into in the case of an underwritten offering, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 5 hereof with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to Section 5 hereof; and
     (vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the underwriters or the Holders and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings.
     The above shall be done at (i) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement (and, if appropriate, each post-effective amendment thereto) and (ii) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder. In the case of any underwritten offering, the Company shall provide written notice to the Holders of all Registrable Securities of such underwritten offering at least 30 days prior to the filing of a prospectus supplement for such underwritten offering. Such notice shall (x) offer each such Holder the right to participate in such underwritten offering, (y) specify a date, which shall be no earlier than 10 business days following the date of such notice, by which such Holder must inform the Company of its intent to participate in such underwritten offering and (z) include the instructions such Holder must follow in order to participate in such underwritten offering;
     (o) in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by representatives of the Holders of the Registrable Securities and any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and any U.S. counsel or accountant retained by such Holders or underwriters, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such Persons, and cause the respective officers, directors, employees, and any other agents of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, special counsel or accountant in connection with a Registration Statement; that any such records, documents, properties and such information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time of delivery of such records, documents, properties or information shall be kept confidential by any such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant and shall be used only in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement, unless such information has become available (not in violation of this Agreement) to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality, and except that such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant shall have no liability, and shall not be in breach of this provision, if disclosure of such confidential information is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, and the Company shall be entitled to request that such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant sign a confidentiality agreement to the foregoing effect. Each such person will be required to agree that information obtained by it as a result of such inspections shall be deemed confidential and shall not be used by it as the basis for any market transactions in the securities of the Company unless and until such is made generally available to the public through no fault or action of such person. Each selling Holder of such Registrable Securities will be required to further agree that it will, upon learning that disclosure of confidential information is necessary, give notice to the Company to allow the Company at its expense to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the confidential information;
provided
 
     (p) (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, within a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers, and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchasers or their counsel may reasonably request; (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, within a reasonable time prior to filing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Holders of Registrable Securities, to the Initial Purchasers, to counsel on behalf of the Holders and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any, and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as counsel to the Initial Purchasers, the Holders or any underwriter may reasonably request; and (iii) cause the representatives of the Company to be available for discussion of such document as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Registrable Securities, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders or any underwriter, and shall not at any time make any filing of any such document of which such Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, their counsel or any underwriter shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which such Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, their counsel or any underwriter shall reasonably object within a reasonable time period;
     (q) in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Registrable Securities to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Majority Holders or by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering, unless the Registrable Securities are already so rated;
     (r) otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering at least twelve months which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder; and
     (s) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the NASD and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter and its counsel.
     In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Securities to furnish to the Company or its counsel such information regarding such Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Securities, as the Company may from time to time reasonably request, and agree in writing to be bound by the Agreement, including the indemnification provisions.
     In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Sections 2(d)(i) and 3(e)(ii)-(vii) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of (i) the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(k) hereof or (ii) written notice from the Company that the Shelf Registration Statement is once again effective and that no supplement or amendment is required. If so directed by the
 
Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice.
     If the Company shall give any such notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement as a result of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Sections 2(d)(i) and 3(e)(vi) hereof, the Company shall be deemed to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during such period of suspension; that (i) such period of suspension shall not exceed the time periods provided in Section 2(d)(iii) hereof and (ii) the Company shall, if necessary, use its reasonable best efforts to file and have declared effective (if an amendment) as soon as practicable an amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement and shall extend the period during which the Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions.
provided
     4. . If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will manage the offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company.
Underwritten Offerings
     No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten offering hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
     5. 
Indemnification and Contribution
     (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, each Holder, their respective affiliates, directors, officers, employees and agents, and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Initial Purchaser, any Holder or any such controlling or affiliated Person in connection with defending or investigating any such action or claim) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any amendment thereof, pursuant to which Exchange Securities or Registrable Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the
 
statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information relating to any Initial Purchaser or any Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser or by or relating to any Holder or underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Securities, in each case expressly for use therein.
     (b) Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Initial Purchaser, each underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Securities, and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective affiliates, directors and officers (including, without limitation, each director and officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement), employees and agents, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser, any underwriter or any other selling Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses described in the indemnity contained in Section 5(a), as incurred), but only with reference to information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement or any amendment thereof or any Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto.
     (c) In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any Person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) above, such Person (the "indemnified party") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "indemnifying party") in writing (but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party except to the extent it is materially prejudiced or harmed) and the indemnifying party, upon request of the indemnified party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (i) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; (iii) the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the indemnifying party; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for (a) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Initial Purchasers and all Persons, if any, who control any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, (b) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Company, its directors, its officers who sign the Registration Statement and all Persons, if any, who control the Company within the meaning of either such Section and (c) the fees and
 
expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Holders and all Persons, if any, who control any Holders within the meaning of either such Section, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. In the case of any such separate firm for the Initial Purchasers and such control Persons of the Initial Purchasers, such firm shall be designated in writing by Citigroup Global Markets Inc. In the case of any such separate firm for the Holders and such Persons who control Holders, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders. In all other cases, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Company. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there is a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second and third sentences of this paragraph, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
     (d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this Section 5 is unavailable to an indemnified party or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each indemnifying party under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and of the indemnified party or parties on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party or parties on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such indemnifying party or parties or such indemnified party or parties, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     (e) The Company, the Initial Purchasers, and each Holder of Registrable Securities agree that it would not be just or equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an
 
indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, no Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which Registrable Securities were sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 5, each Person, if any, who controls an Initial Purchaser or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser or Holder. The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
     The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or directors or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
     6. .
Miscellaneous
     (a) . If at any time the Company is no longer subject to the reporting requirements under the 1934 Act, the Company will upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Securities (i) make publicly available or cause to be made publicly available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, (ii) deliver or cause to be delivered such information to a prospective purchaser as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, and (iii) take such further action that is reasonable in the circumstances, in each case, to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell its Registrable Securities without registration under the 1933 Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (x) Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, (y) Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (z) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the SEC; , the Company will be deemed to have satisfied its obligations under clauses (i) and (ii) above to the extent such information has been filed by the Company with the SEC via the EDGAR filing system and such reports are publicly available.
Rule 144 and Rule 144A
provided, however
     (b) . The Company has not entered into nor will the Company on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
     (c) . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the material provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure.
Amendments and Waivers
     (d) . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser), at the most current address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, (ii) if to an Initial Purchaser, at the most current address given by such Initial Purchaser to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(d), which address initially is the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and (iii) if to the Company, initially at the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(d).
Notices
     All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
     Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
     (e) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms hereof or of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities, such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successors and Assigns
provided
     (f) . The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiary
     (g) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
     (h) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
     (i) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS THEREOF THAT WOULD APPLY THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION.
GOVERNING LAW
     (j) . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
For themselves and the other Initial Purchasers named in Schedule A to this Agreement.
 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc. Banc of America Securities LLC Barclays Capital Inc. Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. Blaylock & Company, Inc. Calyon Securities (USA) Inc. Mizuho International plc SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc. Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC Wells Fargo Securities, LLC


