FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20070801073949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 1, 2007, the Company announced via press release that its Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.04 per share on its common stock, payable September 4, 2007 to shareholders of record as of August 13, 2007.
The Company is also providing 2007 earnings, seasonality and driver guidance as of August 1, 2007.
The earnings, seasonality and driver guidance, as of August 1, 2007, is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended June 30, 2007.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (August 1, 2007)
Financial information discussed in this press release include both GAAP and non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items, or reflect pro forma adjustments, related to the Company's spin-off effective July 31, 2006. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. Non-GAAP measures are indicated as "Adjusted." A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable Adjusted information appears in the financial tables section of this press release.
(as compared to second quarter 2006)
SECOND QUARTER 2007 HIGHLIGHTS
:
"In the one year since our spin-off, we have continued to drive strong results in all three of our businesses," said Stephen P. Holmes, Wyndham Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer. "Leading the way again this quarter was our Vacation Ownership business, where performance continues to be phenomenal.
We continued to invest in and build momentum behind the Wyndham brand by re-flagging well-known hotels including locations in London and Puerto Rico, launching Wingate by Wyndham, and flying
 
new Wyndham banners over some of our great vacation ownership resorts. Additionally, operating statistics for our Vacation Exchange and Rentals business (Group RCI) showed continued strength in the quarter."
SECOND QUARTER 2007 OPERATING RESULTS
Revenues for the second quarter of 2007 were $1.1 billion, up 15% over the same period in 2006, reflecting strong organic growth across the businesses.
Net income for the second quarter of 2007 was $96 million or $0.52 diluted earnings per share, compared to $75 million or $0.37 diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of 2006.
Net income for the second quarter of 2007 includes $4 million after-tax of separation and related costs associated with Wyndham Worldwide's spin-off from Cendant Corporation (now Avis Budget Group) and $11 million of an after-tax net benefit from the resolution of and adjustment to certain legacy items. Excluding these items, Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2007 was $89 million, or $0.49 diluted earnings per share.
Second quarter of 2006 includes $3 million after-tax of separation and related costs and excludes $16 million after-tax of estimated incremental stand-alone costs (assuming Wyndham Worldwide had been a stand-alone, public company). Assuming these items, Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2006 was $62 million, or $0.31 diluted earnings per share.
Second quarter of 2006 also includes $32 million ($22 million, after-tax) of expenses related to an accrual for local foreign taxes at our European vacation rental operations.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues increased 6% to $186 million in the second quarter of 2007 compared with the second quarter of 2006, primarily reflecting RevPAR gains.
Comparable RevPAR increased 5.1% in the second quarter of 2007 and system-wide RevPAR increased 3.7% from the prior year period.
The Wyndham brand comparison was affected by the expected attrition of certain properties. Excluding these properties, the majority of which have left the system, RevPAR for the Wyndham Hotels and Resorts brand was up 9.9%.
Lodging EBITDA grew 11% to $59 million compared to the second quarter of 2006, reflecting strong fundamentals and timing of marketing spend.
As of June 30, 2007, the Company's hotel system consisted of 541,700 rooms and 6,460 properties with a development pipeline of over 100,000 rooms and approximately 900 hotels, of which 46% were new construction and 25% were international.
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Group RCI)
Revenues increased 10% to $288 million in the second quarter of 2007 compared with the second quarter of 2006, reflecting continued momentum in both vacation exchange and vacation rentals as well as favorable currency translations.
Vacation exchange revenues were $116 million, a 7% increase compared to the second quarter of 2006. The average number of members increased 5% and annual dues and exchange revenue per member increased 2% from the second quarter of 2006.
 
Vacation rentals revenues were $136 million, a 17% increase compared to the second quarter of 2006, reflecting a 5% increase in vacation rental transactions and an 11% increase in the average net price per rental. Bookings and arrivals at Novasol and Landal GreenParks were strong as a result of enhanced marketing programs, supporting an expansion strategy to provide consumers with broader inventories and more destinations, as well as improved local economies.
Other ancillary revenues generated primarily from additional products and services provided to affiliates and members were $36 million in the second quarter of 2007, relatively flat to last year.
Second quarter of 2007 EBITDA was $49 million compared to second quarter of 2006 EBITDA of $32 million, which included a $21 million charge related to an accrual for local foreign taxes at our European vacation rental operations and $1 million of separation and related costs. Second quarter 2007 EBITDA included higher cost of sales on increased rentals and incremental expenses in operational infrastructures, including technology and call center costs to support higher volumes, as well as a reduction in results of $6 million related to certain Asia Pacific consulting relationships.
Compared to the second quarter of 2006, currency translations increased revenues by $10 million, principally rental related, and increased expenses by $9 million, resulting in a $1 million lift to EBITDA.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Revenues increased 21% to $629 million in the second quarter of 2007 compared with the second quarter of 2006 reflecting continued success in marketing and sales.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest sales were $523 million for the second quarter of 2007, up 21% compared to the second quarter of 2006, driven by marketing efforts resulting in an 11% growth in tour flow and a 12% increase in volume per guest from strong performance by our sales force and continued strength in transaction pricing.
Consumer finance revenues increased 26% for the second quarter of 2007 compared to the second quarter of 2006 reflecting continued Vacation Ownership sales growth.
EBITDA for the second quarter of 2007 was $100 million. Excluding separation and related costs of $5 million, Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2007 was $105 million, increasing 22% from the second quarter of 2006, excluding $2 million from separation and related costs during that period. This EBITDA growth is consistent with the growth in Vacation Ownership sales.
As previously announced, the Company successfully completed a $600 million vacation ownership receivables securitization during the second quarter of 2007.
Other Items
Interest expense for the second quarter of 2007 was $18 million, a decrease of $5 million from the second quarter of 2006. This decrease is primarily due to interest related to a foreign tax accrual of $11 million in the second quarter of 2006, partially offset by higher rates and higher average borrowings due to differences in the Company's capital structure since the spin-off. Interest income for the quarter was $2 million compared to $12 million in 2006, principally due to differences in the Company's capital structure since the spin-off. Depreciation and amortization rose $5 million to $41 million.
 
Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2007:
A schedule of debt is included in the financial tables section of this press release.
Share Repurchase
The Company repurchased 6.5 million shares of stock during the second quarter of 2007 at an average price of $36.10. The Company has substantially completed its program announced February 13, 2007, repurchasing a total of 11.7 million shares at an average price of $35.26.
Dividend
The Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.04 per share payable September 4, 2007 to shareholders of record as of August 13, 2007.
Outlook and Guidance Increase
Wyndham Worldwide updates full year 2007 guidance as follows:
"I am extremely proud of our results and accomplishments this year, which reflect the talent, dedication, and enthusiasm of our employees around the world. Their efforts have fostered an industry leading brand portfolio and built valued relationships with franchisees and developers. We offer the right products, brands and geographic distribution to capture the strength in worldwide leisure travel and deliver value to consumers around the globe. We look forward to continued success," concluded Holmes.
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will provide a webcast of its conference call to discuss the Company's second quarter 2007 financial results on Wednesday, August 1 at 9 a.m. EDT. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's Web site at . An archive of this webcast will be available at the Web site for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EST on August 1. The conference call also may be accessed by dialing (517) 308-9108 and providing the pass code
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/
 
"Wyndham." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available at (402) 220-3502 beginning at noon EDT on August 1 until 4 p.m. EST on August 6.
About Wyndham Worldwide
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses almost 6,500 franchised hotels and almost 542,000 hotel rooms worldwide. Group RCI offers its more than 3.4 million members access to over 60,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of approximately 140 vacation ownership resorts serving over 800,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs more than 30,000 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's web site at .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to trends for the Company's revenues, earnings and related financial and operating measures, the number of hotels and resorts the Company intends to add in future periods, debt levels, share repurchases and dividends.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements include general economic conditions, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war and terrorist activity, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 7, 2007. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
It is not practical to provide a reconciliation of forecasted Adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2007 to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, net income, because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any of those items could be significant to our financial results.
 
Table 1
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding interest on securitized vacation ownership debt), income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated and Combined Statements of Income. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006:
 
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 3 (2 of 2)
Lodging
: Represents the weighted average number of hotel rooms available for rental during the period.
Weighted Average Rooms Available
Represents the number of lodging properties under franchise and/or management agreements at the end of the period.
Number of Properties:
Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties under franchise and/or management agreements at the end of the period.
Number of Rooms:
Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate:
Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR):
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR.
RevPAR:
: Royalty, marketing and reservation revenue are typically based on a percentage of the gross room revenues of each franchised hotel. Royalty revenue is generally a fee charged to each franchised hotel for the use of one of our trade names, while marketing and reservation revenue are fees that we collect and are contractually obligated to spend to support marketing and reservation activities.
Royalty, Marketing and Reservation Revenue
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related products and services.
Average Number of Members:
Represents total revenues from annual membership dues and exchange fees generated for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the year.
Annual Dues and Exchange Revenue Per Member:
Represents the gross number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. In our European vacation rentals businesses, one rental transaction is recorded each time a standard one-week rental is booked; however, in the United States, one rental transaction is recorded each time a vacation rental stay is booked, regardless of whether it is less than or more than one week.
Vacation Rental Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers divided by the number of rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents gross sales of vacation ownership interests (including tele-sales upgrades, which are a component of upgrade sales) before deferred sales and loan loss provisions.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents revenue per guest and is calculated by dividing the gross vacation ownership interest sales, excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are a component of upgrade sales, by the number of tours.
Volume per Guest (VPG):
 
Table 4
 
 
Table 5
 
 
Table 6 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 6 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (1 of 4)
 
 
Table 7 (2 of 4)
 
 
Table 7 (3 of 4)
 
 
Table 7 (4 of 4)
 

 
Exhibit 99.2 Table 1
 
 
Table 2


