FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20090618165701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On June 18th, 2009, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") announced that Virginia M. Wilson, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, is leaving the Company. Ms. Wilson will remain in her position as CFO through the third quarter to assist with the transition to a new CFO. It is expected that, consistent with her employment agreement, Ms. Wilson will receive cash severance of $2,056,000.00, and any of Ms. Wilson's long term incentive awards that would have otherwise vested within one year of the date of her separation will vest immediately upon separation. Those awards which were stock options or stock appreciation rights will remain outstanding until the earlier of the original expiration date or two years following the date of separation.
     A copy of the Company's press release announcing Ms. Wilson's planned separation is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
     (d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Wyndham Worldwide (NYSE:WYN) today announced that Virginia M. Wilson, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, is leaving the Company to pursue other interests. Ms. Wilson will remain in her position through the third quarter to assist with the transition.
PARSIPPANY, NJ (June 18, 2009)
"I thank Gina for her many valuable contributions to the Company," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO of Wyndham Worldwide. "She was instrumental in Wyndham Worldwide's transition to public ownership and in establishing a robust financial and technology platform for the future. We wish her the best in her future endeavors."
The Company has initiated a search for a new CFO.
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses almost 7,000 franchised hotels and approximately 588,500 hotel rooms worldwide. Group RCI offers its 3.8 million members access to more than 73,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 150 vacation ownership resorts serving over 830,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 25,500 employees globally.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's web site at .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com


