FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20090518163238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  
 
 
Table of Contents
At the Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 12, 2009, the shareholders of Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors, approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan (as amended and restated, the "Plan") primarily for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The Company's Board of Directors had previously adopted the Plan, subject to shareholder approval.
A brief summary of the Plan is included as part of the third proposal entitled "Proposal to Approve the Amendment and Restatement of the Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan Primarily for Purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code" in the Company's Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 2, 2009. The summary of the Plan contained in the Proxy Statement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Plan, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as and is incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibit 10.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this report:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
The purposes of the Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of May 12, 2009), subject to stockholder approval at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders on May 12, 2009 (the "Plan") are to afford an incentive to non-employee directors, selected officers and other employees, advisors and consultants of Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") and its Affiliates that now exist or hereafter are organized or acquired, to continue as non-employee directors, officers, employees, advisors or consultants, as the case may be, to increase their efforts on behalf of the Company and its Affiliates and to promote the success of the Company's business. The Plan provides for the grant of Options (including "incentive stock options" and "nonqualified stock options"), stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock- or cash-based awards. The Plan is designed so that Awards granted hereunder intended to comply with the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code comply with such requirements, and the Plan and Awards shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such requirements.
 
 
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below:
 
(a)  "Affiliate" shall mean other than the Company, (i) any Subsidiary; (ii) any Parent; (iii) any corporation, trade or business (including, without limitation, a partnership or limited liability company) which is directly or indirectly controlled 50% or more (whether by ownership of stock, assets or an equivalent ownership interest or voting interest) by the Company; (iv) any corporation, trade or business (including, without limitation, a partnership or limited liability company) that directly or indirectly controls 50% or more (whether by ownership of stock, assets or an equivalent ownership interest or voting interest) of the Company; or (v) any other entity, approved by the Committee as an Affiliate under the Plan, in which the Company or any of its Affiliates has a material equity interest and which is designated as an "Affiliate" by resolution of the Committee; provided that the Stock subject to any Award constitutes "service recipient stock" for purposes of Code Section 409A or otherwise does not subject the Award to Code Section 409A.
 
(b)  "Annual Incentive Program" means the program described in Section 6(c) hereof.
 
(c)  "Award" means any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or Other Stock-Based Award or Other Cash-Based Award granted under the Plan.
 
(d)  "Award Agreement" means any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing an Award.
 
(e)  "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(f)  "Cendant" means Cendant Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
 
(g)  "Cendant Award" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(b)(v).
 
 
(h)  "Change in Control" means, following the Effective Date and excluding the separation transaction pursuant to which the Company becomes a separate public corporation for the first time, a change in control of the Company, which will have occurred if:
 
(i)  any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than (A) the Company, (B) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, and (C) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Stock), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities (excluding any person who becomes such a beneficial owner in connection with a transaction immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board of the entity surviving such transaction or, if the Company or the entity surviving the transaction is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof);
Rule 13d-3
 
(ii)  the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the Effective Date, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the Effective Date or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended;
 
(iii)  there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the Board, the entity surviving such merger or consolidation or, if the Company or the entity surviving such merger is then a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof; or
 
(iv)  the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (or any transaction having a similar effect), other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, immediately following which the individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the board of directors of the entity to which such assets are sold or disposed of or, if such entity is a subsidiary, the ultimate parent thereof.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of (x) a Public Offering or (y) the consummation of any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which individuals who comprise the Board immediately prior thereto constitute at least a majority of the board of directors of an entity which owns all or substantially all of the assets of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent that Awards under the Plan subject to Code Section 409A are payable upon a Change in Control, an event shall not be considered to be a Change in Control under the Plan with respect to such Award unless such event is also a "change in ownership," a "change in effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A.
 
(i)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
 
(j)  "Code Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Code and the Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date of the Plan.
 
(k)  "Committee" means the committee established by the Board to administer the Plan, the composition of which shall at all times satisfy the provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code and applicable stock exchange rules. If for any reason the appointed Committee does not meet the requirements of or Section 162(m) of the Code, such noncompliance with the requirements of or Section 162(m) of the Code shall not affect the validity of the Awards, grants, interpretations or other actions of the Committee.
Rule 16b-3,
Rule 16b-3
Rule 16b-3
 
(l)  "Company" means Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any successor corporation.
 
(m)  "Conversion Option" means an NQSO granted under Section 6(b)(v).
 
(n)  "Conversion Stock" means an Award of Stock granted under Section 6(b)(v).
 
(o)  "Covered Employee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
 
(p)  "Effective Date" means the date of stockholder approval of the amended and restated Plan at the Company's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders (, May 12, 2009), subject to Sections 8(d)(i) and 8(e).
i.e.
 
(q)  "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(r)  "Fair Market Value" of a share of Stock shall be determined for purposes of the Plan, including, without limitation, with respect to the granting of any Award by using the closing price of Stock as of the date such Award is granted, unless otherwise determined by the Committee or required by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if at the time of grant or other applicable event, the Stock is not then listed on a national securities exchange, "Fair Market Value" shall mean, (i) if the shares of Stock are then traded in an over-the-counter market, the average of the bid and ask price for shares of Stock in such over-the-counter market (determined at the same time as contemplated in clauses (A) and (B) above with respect to the applicable action), and (ii) if the shares of Stock are not then listed on a national securities exchange or traded in an over-the-counter market, or the value of such shares is not otherwise determinable, such value as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
 
(s)  "Grantee" means a person who, as a non-employee director, officer or other employee, advisor or consultant of the Company or its Affiliate, has been granted an Award under the Plan.
 
(t)  "ISO" means any Option intended to be and designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
 
(u)  "Long Term Incentive Program" means the program described in Section 6(b) hereof.
 
(v)  "Non-Employee Director" means any director of the Company who is not also employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates.
 
(w)  "NQSO" means any Option that is not designated as an ISO.
 
(x)  "Option" means a right, granted to a Grantee under Section 6(b)(i) or 6(b)(v), to purchase shares of Stock. An Option may be either an ISO or an NQSO, provided that ISOs may be granted only to employees of the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.
 
 
(y)  "Other Cash-Based Award" means cash awarded under the Annual Incentive Program or the Long Term Incentive Program, including cash awarded as a bonus or upon the attainment of Performance Goals or otherwise as permitted under the Plan.
 
(z)  "Other Stock-Based Award" means a right or other interest granted to a Grantee under the Annual Incentive Program or the Long Term Incentive Program that may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Stock, including but not limited to (i) unrestricted Stock awarded as a bonus or upon the attainment of Performance Goals or otherwise as permitted under the Plan, and (ii) a right granted to a Grantee to acquire Stock from the Company containing terms and conditions prescribed by the Committee.
 
(aa)  "Parent" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
 
(bb)  "Performance Goals" means performance goals based on one or more of the following criteria, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles where applicable: (i) pre-tax income or after-tax income; (ii) pre-tax or after-tax profits; (iii) income or earnings including operating income, earnings before or after taxes, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, earnings before or after interest, depreciation, amortization, or extraordinary or special items, or a combination of any or all of the foregoing; (iv) net income excluding amortization of intangible assets, depreciation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets excluding charges attributable to the adoption of new accounting pronouncements; (v) earnings or book value per share (basic or diluted); (vi) return on assets (gross or net), return on investment, return on capital, return on invested capital or return on equity; (vii) return on revenues; (viii) cash flow, free cash flow, cash flow return on investment (discounted or otherwise), net cash provided by operations, or cash flow in excess of cost of capital; (ix) economic value created; (x) operating margin or profit margin (gross or net); (xi) stock price or total stockholder return; (xii) income or earnings from continuing operations; (xiii) after-tax or pre-tax return on stockholders' equity; (xiv) growth in the value of an investment in the Company's common stock assuming the reinvestment of dividends; (xv) operating profits or net operating profits; (xvi) working capital; (xvii) gross or net sales, revenue and growth of sales revenue (either before or after cost of goods, selling and general administrative expenses, and any other expenses or interest); (xviii) cost targets, reductions and savings (including, without limitation, the achievement of a certain level of, reduction of, or other specified objectives with regard to limiting the level of increase in, all or a portion of, the Company's bank debt or other long-term or short-term public or private debt or other similar financial obligations of the Company, which may be calculated net of such cash balances other offsets and adjustments as may be established by the Committee), expense management, productivity and efficiencies; (xix) strategic business criteria, consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified market penetration or market share, geographic business expansion, customer satisfaction, employee satisfaction, human resources management, supervision of litigation, information technology, and goals relating to divestitures, joint ventures and similar transactions; and (xx) any combination of the foregoing. Where applicable, the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of attaining a specified level of the particular criterion or the attainment of a percentage increase or decrease in the particular criterion, and may be applied to one or more of the Company or its Affiliates, or a division or strategic business unit of the Company, all as determined by the Committee. The Performance Goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no payment will be made (or no vesting will occur), levels of performance at which specified payments will be paid (or specified vesting will occur), and a maximum level of performance above which no additional payment will be made (or at which full vesting will occur). Each of the foregoing Performance Goals shall be evaluated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, where applicable, and shall be subject to certification by the Committee. The Committee shall have the authority to make equitable adjustments to the Performance Goals in recognition of unusual or non-recurring events affecting the Company or its Affiliates or the financial statements of the Company or its Affiliates, in response to changes in applicable laws or regulations, or to account for items of gain, loss or
and/or
and/or
 
expense determined to be extraordinary or unusual in nature or infrequent in occurrence or related to a corporate transaction (including, without limitation, a disposition or acquisition) or related to a change in accounting principles, all as determined in accordance with standards established by Opinion No. 30 of the Accounting Principles Board.
 
(cc)  "Performance Period" shall mean the one or more periods of time, as the Committee may select, over which the attainment of one or more Performance Goals will be measured for the purpose of determining a Grantee's right to and the payment of an Award.
 
(dd)  "Plan" means this Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of May 12, 2009), as amended from time to time.
 
(ee)  "Plan Year" means a calendar year.
 
(ff)  "Public Offering" means an offering of securities of the Company that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(gg)  "Restricted Stock" means an Award of shares of Stock to a Grantee under Section 6(b)(iii) that may be subject to certain restrictions and to a risk of forfeiture.
 
(hh)  "Restricted Stock Unit" or "RSU" means a right granted to a Grantee under Section 6(b)(iv) or 6(b)(v) to receive Stock or cash at the end of a specified period, which right may be conditioned on the satisfaction of specified performance or other criteria.
 
means as from time to time in effect promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Exchange Act, including any successor to such Rule.
(ii)  "Rule 16b-3"
Rule 16b-3,
 
(jj)  "Securities Act" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(kk)  "Stock" means shares of the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company.
 
(ll)  "Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means the right, granted to a Grantee under Section 6(b)(ii), to be paid an amount measured by the appreciation in the Fair Market Value of Stock from the date of grant to the date of exercise of the right.
 
(mm)  "Subsidiary" means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
 
(nn)  "Ten Percent Stockholder" shall mean a person owning stock of the Company possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary.
 
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Board or by such Committee that the Board may appoint for this purpose. If a Committee is appointed to administer the Plan, all references herein to the "Committee" shall be references to such Committee. If no Committee is appointed by the Board to administer the Plan, all references herein to the "Committee" shall be references to the Board. The Committee shall have the authority in its discretion, subject to and not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, to administer the Plan and to exercise all the powers and authorities either specifically granted to it under the Plan or necessary or advisable in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to grant Awards; to determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which Awards shall be granted; to determine the type and number of Awards to be granted, the number of shares of Stock to which an Award may relate and the terms, conditions,
 
restrictions and performance criteria relating to any Award; to determine Performance Goals no later than such time as required to ensure that an underlying Award which is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code so complies; and to determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled, cancelled, forfeited, exchanged, or surrendered; to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the Performance Goals (if any) included in, Awards; to construe and interpret the Plan and any Award; to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; to determine the terms and provisions of the Award Agreements (which need not be identical for each Grantee); and to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. The Committee may adopt special guidelines and provisions for persons who are residing in, or subject to, the taxes of, countries other than the United States to comply with applicable tax and securities laws and may impose any limitations and restrictions that they deem necessary to comply with the applicable tax and securities laws of such countries other than the United States. Except in connection with a corporate transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, or exchange of shares), the terms of outstanding Awards may not be amended to reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or SARs, and provided further, outstanding Options or SARs may not be replaced or cancelled in exchange for cash, other Awards or Options or SARs with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Options or SARs without stockholder approval. To the extent applicable, the Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of and the exception for performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code with regard to Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, certain awards of Other Stock- or Cash-Based Awards and in certain cases, all other Awards under the Plan, and shall be limited, construed and interpreted in a manner so as to comply therewith.
split-up,
Rule 16b-3
 
The Committee may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more agents such administrative duties as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any person to whom it has delegated duties as aforesaid may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan. All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be final and binding on all persons, including but not limited to the Company and its Affiliates or any Grantee (or any person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Grantee) and any stockholder.
 
No member of the Board or Committee shall be liable for any action taken or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted hereunder.
 
 
Awards may be granted to selected non-employee directors, officers and other employees, advisors or consultants of the Company or its Affiliates, in the discretion of the Committee. In determining the persons to whom Awards shall be granted and the type of any Award (including the number of shares to be covered by such Award), the Committee shall take into account such factors as the Committee shall deem relevant in connection with accomplishing the purposes of the Plan.
 
 
The maximum number of shares of Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be 36,700,000 including all shares to be issued pursuant to Conversion Options or Conversion Stock, and pursuant to the Company's Non-Employee Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, Savings Restoration Plan, and Officer Deferred Compensation Plan, subject to adjustment as provided herein. No more than (i) 1 million shares of Stock may be made subject to Options (other than Conversion Options) or SARs to a single individual in a single Plan Year, (ii) 250,000 shares of Stock may be made subject to stock-based awards other than Options or SARs (including Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units (but other than Conversion Stock) or Other Stock-Based Awards denominated in shares of Stock) to a single individual in a single Plan Year, and (iii) 1 million shares of Stock may be issued pursuant to the exercise of ISO's, in each case, subject to adjustment as provided herein. Determinations made in
 
respect of the limitations set forth in the immediately preceding sentence shall be made in a manner consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code. Such shares may, in whole or in part, be authorized but unissued shares or shares that shall have been or may be reacquired by the Company in the open market, in private transactions or otherwise. If any shares subject to an Award are forfeited, cancelled, exchanged or surrendered or if an Award terminates or expires without a distribution of shares to the Grantee, or if shares of Stock are surrendered or withheld as payment of either the exercise price of an Award withholding taxes in respect of an Award, the shares of Stock with respect to such Award shall, to the extent of any such forfeiture, cancellation, exchange, surrender, withholding, termination or expiration, again be available for Awards under the Plan. Upon the exercise of any Award granted in tandem with any other Award, such related Award shall be cancelled to the extent of the number of shares of Stock as to which the Award is exercised and, notwithstanding the foregoing, such number of shares shall no longer be available for Awards under the Plan.
and/or
 
In the event that the Committee shall determine that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Stock, or other property), recapitalization, Stock split, reverse split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or share exchange, or other similar corporate transaction or event, affects the Stock such that an adjustment is appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Grantees under the Plan, then the Committee shall make such equitable changes or adjustments as it deems necessary or appropriate to any or all of (i) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other property (including cash) that may thereafter be issued in connection with Awards, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other property (including cash) issued or issuable in respect of outstanding Awards, (iii) the exercise price, grant price, or purchase price relating to any Award; provided, that, with respect to ISOs, such adjustment shall be made in accordance with Section 424(h) of the Code, and with respect to NQSOs, such adjustment shall be made in a manner intended to comply with Code Section 409A, (iv) annual award limitations set forth in this Section 5; and (v) the Performance Goals applicable to outstanding Awards.
 
 
(a)  .  The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, payments to be made by the Company or its Affiliates upon the grant, vesting, maturation, or exercise of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee shall determine at the date of grant or thereafter, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, or other property, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis in a manner intended to comply with Code Section 409A. The Committee may make rules relating to installment or deferred payments with respect to Awards, including the rate of interest to be credited with respect to such payments. In addition to the foregoing, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter, such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine.
General
 
(b)  .  Under the Long Term Incentive Program, the Committee is authorized to grant the Awards described in this Section 6(b), under such terms and conditions as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Such Awards may be granted with value and payment contingent upon Performance Goals. Except as otherwise set forth herein or as may be determined by the Committee, each Award granted under the Long Term Incentive Program shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement containing such terms and conditions applicable to such Award as the Committee shall determine at the date of grant or thereafter.
Long Term Incentive Program
 
(i)  .  The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Grantees on the following terms and conditions:
Options
 
(A)  .  The Award Agreement evidencing the grant of an Option under the Plan shall designate the Option as an ISO or an NQSO. To the extent that any Option does not qualify as an ISO (whether because of its provisions or the time or
Type of Award
 
manner of its exercise or otherwise), such Option or the portion thereof which does not qualify, shall constitute a separate NQSO. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary or any provision in an Award Agreement to the contrary, any Option granted to an employee of an Affiliate (other than one described in Section 2(a)(i) or (ii)) shall be an NQSO.
 
(B)  .  The exercise price per share of Stock purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee, but, subject to Section 6(b)(v), in no event shall the per share exercise price of any Option be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of such Option; provided, however, if an ISO is granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder, the per share exercise price shall not be less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of the share of Stock on the date of grant of such ISO. The exercise price for Stock subject to an Option may be paid in cash or by an exchange of Stock previously owned by the Grantee for at least six months (if acquired from the Company), through a "broker cashless exercise" procedure approved by the Committee (to the extent permitted by law), or a combination of the above, in any case in an amount having a combined value equal to such exercise price. An Award Agreement may provide that a Grantee may pay all or a portion of the aggregate exercise price by having shares of Stock with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price withheld by the Company.
Exercise Price
 
(C)  .  The date on which the Committee adopts a resolution expressly granting an Option shall be considered the day on which such Option is granted. The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee, but no Option shall be exercisable more than ten years after the date the Option is granted; provided, however, that the term of an ISO granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder may not exceed five years. Options shall be exercisable over the term at such times and upon such conditions as the Committee may determine, as reflected in the Award Agreement; provided, that the Committee shall have the authority to accelerate the exercisability of any outstanding Option at such time and under such circumstances as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. An Option may be exercised to the extent of any or all full shares of Stock as to which the Option has become exercisable, by giving written notice of such exercise to the Committee or its designated agent.
Term and Exercisability of Options
 
(D)  .  An Option may not be exercised unless the Grantee is then a director of, in the employ of, or providing services to, the Company or its Affiliates, and unless the Grantee has remained continuously so employed, or continuously maintained such relationship, since the date of grant of the Option; provided, that the Award Agreement may contain provisions extending the exercisability of Options, in the event of specified terminations of employment or service, to a date not later than the expiration date of such Option.
Termination of Employment/Service
 
(E)  .  To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the time of grant) of the Stock with respect to which ISOs are exercisable for the first time by a Grantee during any calendar year under the Plan any other stock option plan of the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary exceeds $100,000, such Options shall be treated as Options which are not ISOs. In addition, if a Grantee does not remain employed by the Company, its Parent or any Subsidiary at all times from the time the Option is granted until three months prior to the date of exercise (or such other period as required by applicable law), such Option shall be treated as an Option which is not an ISO. Should the foregoing provisions not be necessary in order for Options to qualify as an ISO, or should any additional provisions be required, the Committee may amend the Plan accordingly, without the necessity of obtaining the approval of the stockholders of the Company.
Incentive Stock Option Limitations
and/or
 
 
(F)  .  Options may be subject to such other conditions including, but not limited to, restrictions on transferability of the shares acquired upon exercise of such Options, as the Committee may prescribe in its discretion or as may be required by applicable law.
Other Provisions
 
(ii)  .  The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Grantees on the following terms and conditions:
SARs
 
(A)  .  Unless the Committee determines otherwise, a SAR (1) granted in tandem with an NQSO may be granted at the time of grant of the related NQSO or at any time thereafter or (2) granted in tandem with an ISO may only be granted at the time of grant of the related ISO. A SAR granted in tandem with an Option shall be exercisable only to the extent the underlying Option is exercisable. Payment of a SAR may be made in cash, Stock, or property as specified in the Award or determined by the Committee. The grant price per share of Stock subject to a SAR shall be determined by the Committee at the time of grant, provided that the per share grant price of a SAR, whether or not granted in tandem with an Option, shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Stock at the time of grant.
In General
 
(B)  .  A SAR shall confer on the Grantee a right to receive an amount with respect to each share subject thereto, upon exercise thereof, equal to the excess of (1) the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of exercise over (2) the grant price of the SAR (which in the case of an SAR granted in tandem with an Option shall be equal to the exercise price of the underlying Option, and which in the case of any other SAR shall be such price as the Committee may determine).
Right Conferred
 
(C)  .  The date on which the Committee adopts a resolution expressly granting a SAR shall be considered the day on which such SAR is granted. SARs shall be exercisable over the exercise period (which shall not exceed the lesser of ten years from the date of grant or, in the case of a tandem SAR, the expiration of its related Award), at such times and upon such conditions as the Committee may determine, as reflected in the Award Agreement; provided, that the Committee shall have the authority to accelerate the exercisability of any outstanding SAR at such time and under such circumstances as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. A SAR may be exercised to the extent of any or all full shares of Stock as to which the SAR (or, in the case of a tandem SAR, its related Award) has become exercisable, by giving written notice of such exercise to the Committee or its designated agent.
Term and Exercisability of SARs
 
(D)  .  A SAR may not be exercised unless the Grantee is then a director of, in the employ of, or providing services to, the Company or its Affiliates, and unless the Grantee has remained continuously so employed, or continuously maintained such relationship, since the date of grant of the SAR; provided, that the Award Agreement may contain provisions extending the exercisability of the SAR, in the event of specified terminations of employment or service, to a date not later than the expiration date of such SAR (or, in the case of a tandem SAR, its related Award).
Termination of Employment/Service
 
(E)  .  SARs may be subject to such other conditions including, but not limited to, restrictions on transferability of the shares acquired upon exercise of such SARs, as the Committee may prescribe in its discretion or as may be required by applicable law.
Other Provisions
 
 
(iii)  .  The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock to Grantees on the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock
 
(A)  .  Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose at the date of grant or thereafter, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances, in such installments, or otherwise, as the Committee may determine. The Committee may place restrictions on Restricted Stock that shall lapse, in whole or in part, only upon the attainment of Performance Goals. The Committee may designate an Award of Restricted Stock as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code by conditioning the Award or the lapse of restrictions on the achievement of Performance Goals; provided that the Committee shall establish the objective Performance Goals at such time required under Section 162(m) of the Code and while the outcome of the Performance Goals are substantially uncertain. Except to the extent restricted under the Award Agreement relating to the Restricted Stock, a Grantee granted Restricted Stock shall have all of the rights of a stockholder including, without limitation, the right to vote Restricted Stock and the right to receive dividends thereon.
Issuance and Restrictions
 
(B)  .  Upon termination of employment with or service to, or termination of the director or independent contractor relationship with, the Company or its Affiliates during the applicable restriction period, Restricted Stock and any accrued but unpaid dividends that are then subject to restrictions shall be forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award Agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock will be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Restricted Stock; provided that, Restricted Stock that is intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code will be based on the actual achievement of the Performance Goals through the date of such termination.
Forfeiture
 
(C)  .  Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, requiring the shares of Restricted Stock be held in uncertificated book entry form. If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Grantee, such certificates shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, and the Company shall retain physical possession of the certificate.
Certificates for Stock
 
(D)  .  Stock distributed in connection with a stock split or stock dividend, and cash or other property distributed as a dividend, shall be subject to restrictions and a risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock with respect to which such Stock or other property has been distributed, and shall be settled as the same time as the Restricted Stock to which it relates.
Dividends
 
(iv)  .  The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock Units to Grantees, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock Units
 
(A)  .  Delivery of Stock or cash, as determined by the Committee, will occur upon expiration of the deferral period specified for Restricted Stock Units by the Committee. The Committee may place restrictions on Restricted Stock Units that shall lapse, in whole or in part, only upon the attainment of Performance Goals. The Committee may designate an Award of Restricted Stock Units as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code by conditioning the Award or the lapse of restrictions on the achievement of Performance Goals; provided that the Committee shall establish the objective Performance Goals at such time required under Section 162(m) of the Code and while the outcome of the Performance Goals are
Award and Restrictions
 
substantially uncertain. The Committee may award dividend equivalents relating to Restricted Stock Units on terms and conditions as it determines.
 
(B)  .  Upon termination of employment with or service to, or termination of director or independent contractor relationship with, the Company or its Affiliates during the applicable deferral period or portion thereof to which forfeiture conditions apply, or upon failure to satisfy any other conditions precedent to the delivery of Stock or cash to which such Restricted Stock Units relate, all Restricted Stock Units and any accrued but unpaid dividend equivalents that are then subject to deferral or restriction shall be forfeited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award Agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock Units will be waived in whole or in part in the event of termination resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units; provided that, Restricted Stock Units that are intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code will be based on the actual achievement of the Performance Goals through the date of such termination.
Forfeiture
 
(C)  .  The Company shall issue RSUs pursuant to this Section 6(b)(iv)(C) for the purpose of fulfilling the Company's obligations under its Non-Employee Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Deferred Compensation Plan"); provided, that certain terms and conditions of the grant and payment of such RSUs set forth in the Deferred Compensation Plan (and only to the extent set forth in such plan) shall supercede the terms generally applicable to RSUs granted under the Plan. RSUs granted under this paragraph need not be evidenced by an Award Agreement unless the Committee determines that such an Award Agreement is desirable for the furtherance of the purposes of the Plan and the Deferred Compensation Plan.
Director Deferred Compensation Awards
 
(D)  .  The Company shall issue RSUs payable only in Stock (unless the Committee determines otherwise) pursuant to the Company's non-employer director compensation program, and shall issue Stock in settlement of such RSUs in accordance with such program and the terms of this Plan.
Non-Employee Director Compensatory Awards
 
(v)  .  The Committee is authorized to grant Options and Stock awards (such Options and Stock awards, "Conversion Options" and Conversion Stock," respectively) in connection with the equitable adjustment by Cendant of certain stock options and restricted stock unit awards previously granted to Grantees by Cendant (such Cendant awards, the "Cendant Awards"). Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, and in any event in accordance with a formula for the conversion of Cendant Awards determined by the Board in its sole discretion, (i) the number of shares to be subject to a Conversion Option or Conversion Stock shall be determined by the Committee and (ii) the per share exercise price of a Conversion Option shall be determined by the Committee.
Converted Cendant Awards
 
(vi)  .  The Committee is authorized to grant Awards to Grantees in the form of Other Stock-Based Awards or Other Cash-Based Awards, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Awards granted pursuant to this paragraph may be granted with value and payment contingent upon Performance Goals, so long as such goals relate to periods of performance in excess of one calendar year. The Committee may designate an Other Stock- or Cash-Based Award as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code by conditioning the Award or the lapse of restrictions on the achievement of Performance Goals; provided that the Committee shall establish the objective Performance Goals at such time required under Section 162(m) of the Code and while the outcome of the Performance Goals are substantially uncertain. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of such Awards at the date of grant or thereafter. Performance Periods under this Section 6(b)(vi) may overlap. The maximum value
Other Stock- or Cash-Based Awards
 
of the aggregate payment that any Grantee may receive pursuant to this Section 6(b)(vi) in respect of any Plan Year is $1 million. Payments earned hereunder may be decreased or, with respect to any Grantee who is not a Covered Employee, increased in the sole discretion of the Committee based on such factors as it deems appropriate. No such payment shall be made to a Covered Employee prior to the certification by the Committee that the Performance Goals have been attained. The Committee may establish such other rules applicable to the Other Stock- or Cash-Based Awards to the extent not inconsistent with Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(c)  .  In addition to Awards granted under Section 6(b), the Committee is authorized to grant stock- and cash-based Awards to Grantees pursuant to the Annual Incentive Program, under such terms and conditions as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Awards granted pursuant to this paragraph may be granted with value and payment contingent upon Performance Goals, so long as such goals relate to periods of performance of one calendar year or less. The Committee may designate an Award granted under the Annual Incentive Program as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code by conditioning the Award or the lapse of restrictions on the achievement of Performance Goals; provided that the Committee shall establish the objective Performance Goals at such time required under Section 162(m) of the Code and while the outcome of the Performance Goals are substantially uncertain. Grantees will be selected by the Committee with respect to participation for a Plan Year. The maximum value of the aggregate payment that any Grantee may receive under the Annual Incentive Program in respect of any Plan Year is $3 million. Payments earned hereunder may be decreased or, with respect to any Grantee who is not a Covered Employee, increased in the sole discretion of the Committee based on such factors as it deems appropriate. No such payment shall be made to a Covered Employee prior to the certification by the Committee that the Performance Goals relating to Awards hereunder have been attained. The Committee may establish such other rules applicable to the Annual Incentive Program to the extent not inconsistent with Section 162(m) of the Code.
Annual Incentive Program
 
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant and evidenced in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change of Control:
 
(a)  any Award carrying a right to exercise that was not previously vested and exercisable shall become fully vested and exercisable; and
 
(b)  the restrictions, deferral limitations, payment conditions, and forfeiture conditions applicable to any other Award granted under the Plan shall lapse and such Awards shall be deemed fully vested, and any performance conditions imposed with respect to Awards shall be deemed to be fully achieved.
 
 
(a)  .  Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, Awards shall not be transferable by a Grantee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Grantee only by such Grantee or his guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability
 
(b)  .  Nothing in the Plan or in any Award, any Award Agreement or other agreement entered into pursuant hereto shall confer upon any Grantee the right to continue in the employ of, or to continue as a director of, or to continue to provide services to, the Company or its Affiliates or to be entitled to any remuneration or benefits not set forth in the Plan or such Award Agreement or other agreement or to interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate such Grantee's employment, or director or independent contractor relationship.
No Right to Continued Employment, etc
 
 
(c)  .  The Company and its Affiliates are authorized to withhold from any Award granted, any payment relating to an Award under the Plan, including from a distribution of Stock, or any other payment to a Grantee, amounts of withholding and other taxes due in connection with any transaction involving an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Company and Grantees to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of a Grantee's tax obligations. The Committee may provide in the Award Agreement that in the event that a Grantee is required to pay any amount to be withheld in connection with the issuance of shares of Stock in settlement or exercise of an Award, the Grantee may satisfy such obligation (in whole or in part) by electing to have a portion of the shares of Stock to be received upon settlement or exercise of such Award equal to the minimum amount required to be withheld.
Taxes
 
(d)  .
Stockholder Approval; Amendment and Termination
 
(i)  The Plan shall take effect upon, and be subject to, the requisite approval of the stockholders of the Company. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if stockholders of the Company do not approve the amendment and restatement of the Plan at the 2009 annual meeting, the amendment and restatement of the Plan shall be null and void and the Plan as in effect prior to such amendment and restatement shall continue to apply in full force and effect.
ab initio
 
(ii)  The Board may at any time and from time to time alter, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, an amendment that requires stockholder approval in order for the Plan to continue to comply with Section 162(m) or any other law, regulation or stock exchange requirement shall not be effective unless approved by the requisite vote of stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment to or termination of the Plan shall affect adversely any of the rights of any Grantee, without such Grantee's consent, under any Award theretofore granted under the Plan.
 
(e)  .  Unless earlier terminated by the Board pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Plan shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the earlier of the date the Plan is adopted by the Board and the Effective Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Award (other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right) that is intended to be "performance-based" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be granted on or after the fifth anniversary of the stockholder approval of the Plan unless the Performance Goals are reapproved (or other designated performance goals are approved) by the stockholders no later than the first stockholder meeting that occurs in the fifth year following the year in which stockholders approve the Performance Goals. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after such expiration date, but Awards granted prior to such date may, and the Committee's authority to administer the terms of such Awards, extend beyond that date. The expiration of the Plan shall not affect adversely any of the rights of any Grantee, without such Grantee's consent, under any Award theretofore granted.
Expiration of Plan
 
(f)  .  The Committee shall have the authority to establish such procedures and programs that it deems appropriate to provide Grantees with the ability to defer receipt of cash, Stock or other property payable with respect to Awards granted under the Plan, provided that such deferrals are made in a manner intended to comply with Code Section 409A.
Deferrals
 
(g)  .  No Grantee shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Grantees. Except as provided specifically herein, a Grantee or a transferee of an Award shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Award until the date of the issuance of a stock certificate to him for such shares.
No Rights to Awards; No Stockholder Rights
 
 
(h)  .  The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Grantee pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Grantee any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company.
Unfunded Status of Awards
 
(i)  .  No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
 
(j)  .
Regulations and Other Approvals
 
(i)  The obligation of the Company to sell or deliver Stock with respect to any Award granted under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including all applicable federal and state securities laws, and the obtaining of all such approvals by governmental agencies as may be deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.
 
(ii)  Each Award is subject to the requirement that, if at any time the Committee determines, in its absolute discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of Stock issuable pursuant to the Plan is required by any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the grant of an Award or the issuance of Stock, no such Award shall be granted or payment made or Stock issued, in whole or in part, unless listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
 
(iii)  In the event that the disposition of Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan is not covered by a then-current registration statement under the Securities Act and is not otherwise exempt from such registration, such Stock shall be restricted against transfer to the extent required by the Securities Act or regulations thereunder, and the Committee may require a Grantee receiving Stock pursuant to the Plan, as a condition precedent to receipt of such Stock, to represent to the Company in writing that the Stock acquired by such Grantee is acquired for investment only and not with a view to distribution.
 
(iv)  The Committee may require a Grantee receiving Stock pursuant to the Plan, as a condition precedent to receipt of such Stock, to enter into a stockholder agreement or agreement in such form as the Committee shall determine is necessary or desirable to further the Company's interests.
"lock-up"
 
(k)  .  The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof.
Governing Law
 
(l)  .  Although the Company does not guarantee the particular tax treatment of an Award granted under the Plan, Awards made under the Plan are intended to comply with, or be exempt from, the applicable requirements of Code Section 409A and all Awards shall be interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A.
Tax Laws


