FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20090729072155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting its financial and operating results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended June 30, 2009.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (July 29, 2009)
SECOND QUARTER 2009 HIGHLIGHTS:
"Wyndham Worldwide delivered strong second quarter results," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "Our diversified business model has proved to be flexible and efficient. In addition, we are well positioned to capitalize on an economic recovery."
Second quarter revenues of $920 million declined by 19% from the prior-year period, due to continued weakness in the global lodging industry; unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements which negatively impacted the vacation exchange and rental business; and the previously announced initiative to reduce sales in the Company's vacation ownership business.
SECOND QUARTER 2009 OPERATING RESULTS
 
Reported net income for the second quarter of 2009 was $71 million, or $0.39 diluted EPS, compared with net income of $98 million, or $0.55 diluted EPS, for the second quarter of 2008.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2009 was $75 million, or $0.41 diluted EPS, compared with adjusted net income of $94 million, or $0.53 diluted EPS, for the second quarter of 2008. Second quarter 2009 adjusted EPS excludes the after-tax impact of $4 million in restructuring costs and legacy items. Second quarter 2008 adjusted EPS excludes the after-tax net benefit of $4 million related to legacy items.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Revenues were $174 million in the second quarter of 2009, a decline of 13% compared with the second quarter of 2008, primarily reflecting a worldwide decline in RevPAR and lower property management reimbursable revenues.
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
In constant currency, second quarter 2009 system-wide RevPAR decreased 14.7%, reflecting declines of 13.6% and 18.1% in domestic and international RevPAR, respectively. Including the impact of foreign currency, system-wide RevPAR declined 16.7% in the second quarter of 2009.
Second quarter 2009 EBITDA was $50 million, a 19% decline from the second quarter of 2008, primarily driven by the decline in worldwide RevPAR and lower other franchise fees, partly offset by the timing of marketing expenses.
As of June 30, 2009, the Company's hotel system consisted of over 7,000 properties and 590,200 rooms, of which 21% were international. The development pipeline included approximately 1,000 hotels and 111,000 rooms, of which 50% were new construction and 41% were international.
Revenues were $280 million in the second quarter of 2009, an 11% decrease compared with the second quarter of 2008, primarily related to the impact of unfavorable foreign currency movements. In constant currency, revenues decreased only 1%, as favorability in vacation rental revenues was offset by lower ancillary revenues.
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Group RCI)
Annual dues and exchange revenues were $112 million, relatively flat in constant currency compared with the second quarter of 2008 reflecting a 3% increase in the average number of members and a 4% decline in revenue per member. Including the impact of foreign currency, revenues declined 6% from the second quarter of 2008.
Vacation rental revenues were $137 million, an increase of $7 million, or 5%, in constant currency compared with the second quarter of 2008, driven by a 3% increase in the average net price per rental and a 2% increase in rental transaction volume.
 
Including the impact of foreign currency, revenues decreased 10% from the prior year period.
Second quarter 2009 EBITDA increased 4% to $56 million, compared with $54 million in the second quarter of 2008. Excluding $2 million of restructuring costs, second quarter adjusted EBITDA was $58 million, a 7% increase from the prior year period. Excluding a $12 million unfavorable net effect of foreign currency, adjusted EBITDA would have increased $16 million, or 30%, from the second quarter of 2008, reflecting cost savings.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest (VOI) sales were $327 million for the second quarter of 2009, a 39% decline from the second quarter of 2008. This decrease was primarily driven by the previously announced initiative to scale down our sales in response to the disjointed capital markets, which included a refocusing of sales and marketing efforts that resulted in fewer tours.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Total segment revenues were $467 million in the second quarter of 2009, down 25% from the second quarter of 2008, primarily reflecting the previously mentioned lower tour flow. This was partially offset by a $42 million favorable gross impact from the recognition of revenue that was previously deferred under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting and a 17% increase in VPG from the second quarter of 2008. Under the POC method of accounting for the sale of vacation ownership interests, the Company recognized $37 million of previously deferred revenue during the second quarter of 2009, while second quarter 2008 reported revenues were reduced by $5 million of deferred revenue.
EBITDA for the second quarter of 2009 was $107 million, down 4% from the second quarter of 2008, reflecting a $20 million impact from the net increase in the recognition of revenue previously deferred under the POC method of accounting, offset by the net impact of the planned reduction of VOI sales volume. Excluding $1 million of restructuring costs, second quarter 2009 adjusted EBITDA was $108 million, compared to adjusted EBITDA of $112 million in the second quarter of 2008.
Net interest expense in the second quarter of 2009 was $24 million, a $9 million increase from the second quarter of 2008 due to higher interest rates, primarily reflecting the impact of the long-term debt issuances in May 2009, the proceeds of which were used to reduce revolving credit facility borrowings, and lower capitalized interest. Depreciation and amortization declined $1 million year-over-year to $45 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Other Items
Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2009:
 
A schedule of debt is included in the financial tables section of this press release.
For the third quarter of 2009, the Company expects adjusted EPS of $0.53  $0.57, based on weighted average shares of 182 million.
Guidance
The Company reaffirms full-year 2009 guidance:
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. All guidance excludes legacy items and restructuring costs, if any, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions improve or deteriorate materially from current levels, these assumptions and our guidance may change materially. It is not practicable to provide a reconciliation of forecasted adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any such items could be significant to our financial results.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, July 29, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Listeners can access the webcast live through the Company's website at www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/. The conference call also may be accessed by dialing and providing the pass code "" Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at 12:00 p.m. EDT on July 29, 2009. A telephone replay will be available at (800) 229-6292 beginning at 12:00 p.m. EDT on July 29, 2009, until 5:00 p.m. EDT on September 15, 2009; callers must provide the pass code "147852."
Conference Call Information
(800) 369-1781
Wyndham.
Financial information discussed in this press release includes both GAAP and non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release.
Presentation of Financial Information
 
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses over 7,000 franchised hotels and approximately 590,200 hotel rooms worldwide. Group RCI offers its 3.8 million members access to more than 73,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 150 vacation ownership resorts serving over 830,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 25,500 employees globally.
About Wyndham Worldwide
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's web site at www.wyndhamworldwide.com.
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings and related financial and operating measures.
Forward-Looking Statements
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war and terrorist activity, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on May 7, 2009. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
Table 1
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of the Company's operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3 (1 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (2 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (3 of 3)
Lodging
Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, (ii) properties affiliated with Wyndham Hotels and Resorts brand for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided or (iii) properties managed under the CHI Limited joint venture.
Number of Rooms:
Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate:
Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR):
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR:
: Royalty, marketing and reservation revenues are typically based on a percentage of the gross room revenues of each hotel. Royalty revenue is generally a fee charged to each franchised or managed hotel for the use of one of our trade names, while marketing and reservation revenues are fees that we collect and are contractually obligated to spend to support marketing and reservation activities. Marketing and reservation fees are also included in Table 4 within Marketing, Reservation and Wyndham Rewards Revenues.
Royalty, Marketing and Reservation Revenues
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related products and services.
Average Number of Members:
Represents total revenues from annual membership dues and exchange fees generated for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the year.
Annual Dues and Exchange Revenue Per Member:
Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. In our European vacation rentals businesses, one rental transaction is recorded each time a standard one-week rental is booked; however, in the United States, one rental transaction is recorded each time a vacation rental stay is booked, regardless of whether it is less than or more than one week.
Vacation Rental Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers divided by the number of rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents gross sales of vacation ownership interests (including tele-sales upgrades, which are a component of upgrade sales) before deferred sales and loan loss provisions.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents revenue per guest and is calculated by dividing the gross vacation ownership interest sales, excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are a component of upgrade sales, by the number of tours.
Volume per Guest (VPG):
General
Represents comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency:
 
Table 4
 
 
Table 5
 
 
Table 6 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 6 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 8 (1 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (2 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (3 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (4 of 4)
 


