FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20090908211600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:  
 
 
 
On September 8, 2009, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "") issued a press release announcing that Thomas Conforti, age 50, has been appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Company. In connection with Mr. Conforti's appointment as Chief Financial Officer, the Company has entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Conforti. Mr. Conforti's agreement has a three-year term ending on September 8, 2012. Mr. Conforti's agreement provides for a minimum base salary of $525,000, an annual incentive award with a target amount equal to 100% of his base salary (subject to certain terms and conditions, including the Company's attainment of performance goals established by the Company's Compensation Committee), 2009 annual incentive compensation equal to $175,000, an initial grant of restricted stock units with an aggregate grant date value equal to $1,500,000, vesting in equal installments on each of the first four anniversaries of the grant date, additional grants of long-term incentive awards on terms as determined by the Company's Compensation Committee and subject to the Company's Amended and Restated 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan, and employee benefits and perquisites generally available to the Company's executive officers.
Company
Mr. Conforti's agreement provides that if his employment is terminated by the Company without "cause" or due to a "constructive discharge" (each, as defined in the agreement), he will be entitled to a lump-sum payment equal to 200% of the sum of (i) his then-current base salary, plus (ii) an amount equal to the highest annual incentive compensation award paid to Mr. Conforti with respect to the three years immediately preceding the year in which his employment is terminated (but in no event will the amount in clause (ii) exceed 100% of Mr. Conforti's then-current base salary or be less than $525,000). In addition, in the event of a termination of employment without "cause" or due to a "constructive discharge," (i) all of Mr. Conforti's then-outstanding time-based equity awards that would otherwise vest within one year following termination will vest and any such award that is a stock option or stock appreciation right will remain exercisable until the earlier of two years following termination and the original expiration date of such award, and (ii) all of Mr. Conforti's performance-based long term incentive awards (including restricted stock units but excluding stock options and stock appreciation rights) will vest and be paid on a pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance goals, based upon the portion of the full performance period during which Mr. Conforti was employed by the Company plus 12 months (or, if less, assuming employment for the entire performance period remaining after Mr. Conforti's termination).
The agreement provides for customary restrictive covenants including non-competition and non-solicitation covenants effective during the period of employment and (i) for one year following termination of employment, if Mr. Conforti's employment terminates for any reason after expiration of the term of the employment agreement, or (ii) for two years following termination of employment for any reason, if Mr. Conforti's employment terminates during the three-year term of the employment agreement.
Prior to joining the Company, from 2002 to 2008, Mr. Conforti was the chief financial officer of DineEquity Inc., the publicly-held company which is the franchisor and operator of restaurants under the Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar and IHOP brands. Earlier in his career, Mr. Conforti held a number of general management, financial and strategic roles over a ten-year period in the Consumer Products Division of the Walt Disney Company. He also held numerous finance and strategy roles within the College Textbook Publishing Division of CBS and the Soft Drink Division of Pepsico. Mr. Conforti earned a B.A. in Economics from the University of Connecticut and an M.B.A. from New York University.
 
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Conforti's appointment is furnished herewith as .
Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PARSIPPANY, N.J., September 8, 2009  Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced the appointment of Thomas G. Conforti as chief financial officer, effective immediately. Conforti joins Wyndham Worldwide with over 25 years of experience in finance, management, strategic planning and capital markets, most recently in the leisure industry.
Prior to joining the Company, Conforti was chief financial officer of DineEquity Inc., the publicly-held company which is the franchisor and operator of restaurants under the Applebee's Neighborhood Grill & Bar and IHOP brands. At DineEquity, his accomplishments included the acquisition and financing of Applebee's, the strategic repositioning of IHOP to a conventional franchising model, a debt recapitalization and the revamping of the company's corporate finance strategy.
"We are delighted to welcome Tom to the Wyndham Worldwide management team," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "His proven track record as a public company CFO, his depth and breadth of management and financial experience, as well as his experience with a variety of business models including franchising, will allow Tom to have an immediate impact. I look forward to partnering with Tom to continue to strengthen our business model and enhance shareholder value in the years ahead."
"I am very pleased to be joining Wyndham Worldwide," said Conforti. "The combination of a strong business model, powerful global brands, dynamic corporate culture and a market-leading management team make this an outstanding opportunity."
Earlier in his career, Conforti held a number of general management, financial and strategic roles over a ten-year period in the Consumer Products Division of the Walt Disney Company. He also held numerous finance and strategy roles within the College Textbook Publishing Division of CBS and the Soft Drink Division of Pepsico.
 
About Wyndham Worldwide
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and businesstobusiness customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of worldrenowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses over 7,000 franchised hotels and approximately 590,200 hotel rooms worldwide. Group RCI offers its 3.8 million members access to more than 73,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 150 vacation ownership resorts serving over 830,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 25,500 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's web site at
www.wyndhamworldwide.com.
Investor contact:
Margo C. Happer Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (973) 753-6472
Margo.Happer@wyndhamworldwide.com
Press contact:
Sandra Kelder Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (973) 753-8142
Sandra.Kelder@wyndhamworldwide.com


