FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20100728060953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended June 30, 2010.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (July 28, 2010)
HIGHLIGHTS:
"Continued strong operating performance in each of our businesses in the second quarter, combined with a lower overall tax rate, enables us to increase our full-year earnings guidance," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "We continue to generate significant levels of sustainable free cash flow that we are deploying to drive shareholder value."
SECOND QUARTER 2010 OPERATING RESULTS
Second quarter revenues of $963 million increased 5% from the prior-year period. The revenue growth primarily reflected continued sales momentum across the Company's three business units. Excluding the $37 million of Vacation Ownership revenue associated with the percentage-of-completion (POC) accounting method in the second quarter of 2009, second quarter 2010 adjusted revenue growth was 9%.
 
Net income for the second quarter of 2010 grew 34% to $95 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, compared with net income of $71 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2009. The increase in net income from 2009 primarily reflected the year-over-year improvement in the Exchange and Rentals business, a lower effective tax rate and the favorable net effect of foreign currency.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues were $178 million in the second quarter of 2010, an increase of 2%, compared with the second quarter of 2009, reflecting increased royalty, marketing and reservation revenues primarily from room growth. In constant currency, second quarter 2010 system-wide RevPAR decreased 1.2%. Including the impact of foreign currency, system-wide RevPAR remained flat in the second quarter of 2010. Second quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA was $50 million, consistent with 2009.
As of June 30, 2010, the Company's hotel system consisted of approximately 7,160 properties and 606,800 rooms, of which 24% were international. The development pipeline included approximately 980 hotels and 107,600 rooms, of which 54% were new construction and 49% were international.
Wyndham Hotel Group acquired the Tryp hotel brand from Sol Meli Hotels & Resorts on June 30th. The acquisition of the midmarket international brand adds 92 hotels or approximately 13,200 rooms concentrated in cosmopolitan cities such as Madrid, Barcelona and Paris.
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Wyndham Exchange & Rentals)
Revenues were $281 million in the second quarter of 2010, consistent with the second quarter of 2009. In constant currency, revenues increased by 3%.
Exchange revenues were $161 million, a 2% decline compared with the second quarter of 2009. In constant currency, exchange revenues decreased 3% from the second quarter of 2009 reflecting a 2% decline in exchange revenue per member and a 1% decline in the average number of members.
Vacation rental revenues were $115 million, a 6% increase compared with the second quarter of 2009. In constant currency, vacation rental revenues increased 12% from the second quarter of 2009, reflecting the contribution of incremental revenues from the recently acquired Hoseasons brand.
Second quarter 2010 Exchange and Rentals EBITDA was $78 million, compared with adjusted EBITDA of $58 million in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding a favorable net effect of foreign currency of $10 million, second quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA increased 17% from the second quarter of 2009, due to the impact of the Hoseasons acquisition and continued cost management efforts.
 
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest (VOI) sales were $371 million in the second quarter of 2010, up 13% from the second quarter of 2009, reflecting an increase of 16% in volume per guest (VPG), while tour flow remained relatively flat.
Total segment revenues were $505 million in the second quarter of 2010, compared with $467 million in the second quarter of 2009, which included the recognition of $37 million of previously deferred POC revenues. The absence of these revenues in the second quarter of 2010 was more than offset by the reduction in the provision for loan losses of $35 million primarily related to improved credit metrics of the portfolio and a $31 million increase in gross VOI sales.
EBITDA for the second quarter of 2010 was $104 million, compared with adjusted EBITDA of $108 million in the second quarter of 2009. Excluding an estimated $17 million impact from the POC method of accounting in the second quarter of 2009, second quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA growth was 14%. This growth reflected the lower provision for loan losses and the increase in VOI sales.
Other Items
Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2010:
A schedule of debt is included in the financial tables section of this press release.
Outlook
The Company increased full-year 2010 guidance:
 
For the third quarter of 2010, the Company expects adjusted diluted EPS of $0.60  $0.64.
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. All guidance excludes legacy items, restructuring costs, debt extinguishment and acquisition costs, if any, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions change materially from current levels, these assumptions and our guidance may change materially.
Board Increases Share Repurchase Authorization
The Company's Board of Directors has increased the authorization for the stock repurchase program by $300 million. As of July 27, 2010, $91 million remained unused under the previous $200 million authorization. The amount and timing of specific repurchases is subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. Repurchases may be conducted in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.
Completed $350 Million Term Securitization
On July 26, 2010, the Company announced that it completed a term securitization transaction involving the issuance of $350 million of investment-grade, asset-backed notes with an advance rate of 83.25%. Sierra Timeshare 2010-2 Receivables Funding LLC issued $286 million of A rated and $64 million of BBB rated notes, with coupons of 3.84% and 5.31%, respectively, backed by vacation ownership loans.
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, July 28, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's website at /. An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on July 28, 2010. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing (800) 369-2052 and providing the passcode "WYNDHAM." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on July 28, 2010, at (800) 876-5258.
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors
Presentation of Financial Information
Financial information discussed in this press release includes both GAAP and non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP
 
results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses approximately 7,160 franchised hotels and approximately 606,800 hotel rooms worldwide. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals offers leisure travelers, including its 3.8 million members, access to over 80,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 155 vacation ownership resorts serving over 820,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 25,000 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's website at .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings, related financial and operating measures and share repurchases.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war and terrorist activity, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on April 30, 2010. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
Margo C. Happer Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (973) 753-6472
Investor and Media contact:
margo.happer@wyndhamworldwide.com
 
Table 1
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3 (1 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (2 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (3 of 3)
Lodging
: Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, (ii) properties affiliated with the Wyndham Hotels and Resorts brand for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided or (iii) properties managed under a joint venture.
Number of Rooms
: Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate
: Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR)
: Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
: Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related products and services.
Average Number of Members
: Represents total revenue generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.
Exchange Revenue Per Member
: Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. One rental transaction is recorded each time a standard one-week rental is booked.
Vacation Rental Transactions
: Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties and other related rental servicing fees to customers divided by the number of vacation rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental
Vacation Ownership
: Represents sales of vacation ownership interest (VOIs), including Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model sales, before the net effect of percentage-of-completion accounting and loan loss provisions. See Table 9 for a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to Vacation Ownership Interest Sales. We believe that Gross VOI sales provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales
: Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours
: Represents gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are non-tour upgrade sales) divided by the number of tours. We have excluded non-tour upgrade sales in the calculation of VPG because non-tour upgrade sales are generated by a different marketing channel. See Table 9 for a detail of tele-sales upgrades for 2007-2010. We believe that VPG provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the efficiency of this business' tour selling efforts during a given reporting period.
Volume per Guest (VPG)
General
: Represents comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency
 
Table 4
 
 
Table 5
 
 
 
Table 6 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 6 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 8 (1 of 4)
 
 
Table 8
(2 of 4)
 
 
Table 8
(3 of 4)
 
 
Table 8
(4 of 4)
 
 
Table 9
FREE CASH FLOW
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances, excluding cash payments related to the Company's contingent tax liabilities that it assumed and is responsible for pursuant to its separation from Cendant. The Company considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, equity investments and hotel development advances, can be used for strategic opportunities, including making acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing the Company's common stock and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of the Company's operating results to its competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Wyndham Worldwide is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period.
The following table provides more details on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to the non-GAAP financial measure and the related reconciliation between these financial measures:
GROSS VOI SALES
The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales (see Table 3) to Vacation ownership interest sales (see Table 4):
 
The following represents tele-sales upgrades, which are excluded from Gross VOI sales in the Company's VPG calculation (see Table 3):
 


