FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20100428072810.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended March 31, 2010.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (April 28, 2010)
FIRST QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS:
"Each of our three business units met or exceeded expectations in the first quarter, delivering terrific results while continuing to generate strong free cash flow. We are seeing great momentum at Wyndham Hotels and Resorts, with our flagship brand gaining significant market presence this year. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals continues to deliver stable, fee-for-service results from two fantastic business models, and Wyndham Vacation Ownership is performing better than ever, reflecting transformational changes implemented over the past 18 months," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "We are sharply focused to execute on our growth opportunities, not only as the economy recovers, but well into the future."
 
FIRST QUARTER 2010 OPERATING RESULTS
First quarter revenues of $886 million declined 2% from the prior-year period, due to the fact that first quarter 2009 revenues included a $67 million benefit from the recognition of revenues previously deferred under the percentage-of-completion (POC) accounting method associated with the Company's Vacation Ownership business. Excluding the effects of the POC method of accounting and favorable foreign currency of $12 million, adjusted revenue grew by 5%. The Company has decided to alter its business approach so that POC deferred revenue is eliminated going forward.
Reported net income for the first quarter of 2010 grew 11% to $50 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, compared with net income of $45 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2009.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2010 was $64 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, compared with $74 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009. The 2010 results reflect the absence of deferred revenues from the POC method of accounting included in 2009 and higher interest expense.
Excluded from the first quarter of 2010 adjusted net income are after-tax costs of $10 million associated with the early extinguishment of debt, $3 million of expenses related to the acquisition of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd. and $1 million of legacy expenses. Excluded from the first quarter of 2009 adjusted net income are after-tax costs of $27 million related to restructuring and $2 million of legacy expenses.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues were $144 million in the first quarter of 2010, a decline of 6% compared with the first quarter of 2009, primarily reflecting a decline in RevPAR of 6.8% or 8.7% in constant currency.
First quarter 2010 EBITDA was $33 million compared with $38 million of adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2009, which excluded $3 million of restructuring costs. The decrease reflects the decline in RevPAR, which was partially offset by expense reductions.
As of March 31, 2010, the Company's hotel system consisted of approximately 7,090 properties and 593,300 rooms, of which 22% were international. The development pipeline included approximately 910 hotels and 106,500 rooms, of which 53% were new construction and 45% were international.
 
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Wyndham Exchange & Rentals)
Revenues were $300 million in the first quarter of 2010, a 5% increase compared with the first quarter of 2009. In constant currency, revenues were flat.
Exchange revenues were $189 million, a 2% increase compared with the first quarter of 2009. In constant currency, exchange revenues were flat compared with the first quarter of 2009, reflecting relatively flat performance in exchange revenue per member and average number of members.
Vacation rental revenues were $105 million, a 9% increase compared with the first quarter of 2009. In constant currency, vacation rental revenues increased 2% compared with the first quarter of 2009, reflecting the acquisition of UK rental brand Hoseasons, which closed in March.
First quarter 2010 Exchange and Rentals adjusted EBITDA was $84 million, which excluded $4 million of costs related to the Hoseasons acquisition, compared with $80 million in the first quarter of 2009, which excluded $4 million of restructuring costs. Excluding a favorable net effect of foreign currency of $2 million, first quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA increased 3% compared with the first quarter of 2009.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest (VOI) sales were $308 million in the first quarter of 2010, up 10% from the first quarter of 2009, reflecting an increase of 25% in volume per guest, partially offset by a 10% decrease in tour flow consistent with the Company's planned restructuring of the business.
Total segment revenues were $444 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared with $462 million in the first quarter of 2009, which included the recognition of $67 million of previously deferred POC revenues. This unfavorable impact was partially offset by the increase in gross VOI sales and a reduction in the provision for loan losses of $21 million, primarily related to improved credit metrics of the portfolio.
EBITDA for the first quarter of 2010 was $82 million, compared with adjusted EBITDA of $79 million in the first quarter of 2009, which excluded $35 million of restructuring costs. Excluding an estimated $31 million impact from the POC method of accounting in the first quarter of 2009, first quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA increased 71%, reflecting the increase in gross VOI sales and the lower provision for loan losses.
 
Other Items
Balance Sheet Information as of March 31, 2010:
A schedule of debt is included in the financial tables section of this press release.
Outlook
The Company increased full-year 2010 guidance:
For the second quarter of 2010, the Company expects adjusted diluted EPS of $0.38  $0.42 based on weighted average shares of 189 million.
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. All guidance excludes legacy items, restructuring costs, debt extinguishment and acquisition costs, if any, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions change materially from current levels, these assumptions and our guidance may change materially.
 
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, April 28, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's website at . An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on April 28, 2010. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing (800) -369-2052 and providing the passcode "WYNDHAM." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on April 28, 2010, at (888) -566-0509.
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/
Presentation of Financial Information
Financial information discussed in this press release includes both GAAP and non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses approximately 7,090 franchised hotels and approximately 593,300 hotel rooms worldwide. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals offers leisure travelers, including its 3.8 million members, access to over 65,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 155 vacation ownership resorts serving over 820,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 25,000 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's website at
www.wyndhamworldwide.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include
 
statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings and related financial and operating measures.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war and terrorist activity, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 19, 2010. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Margo C. Happer Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (973) 753-6472
Investor and Media contact:
margo.happer@wyndhamworldwide.com
 
Table 1
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3
(1 of 3)
 
 
Table 3
(2 of 3)
 
 
Table 3
(3 of 3)
Lodging
Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, (ii) properties affiliated with the Wyndham Hotels and Resorts brand for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided or (iii) properties managed under a joint venture.
Number of Rooms:
Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate:
Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR):
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR:
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related products and services.
Average Number of Members:
Represents total revenue generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.
Exchange Revenue Per Member:
Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. One rental transaction is recorded each time a standard one-week rental is booked.
Vacation Rental Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties and other related rental servicing fees to customers divided by the number of vacation rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents total sales of vacation ownership interest (VOIs), including Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model sales, before the net effect of percentage-of-completion accounting and loan loss provisions. See Table 9 for a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to Vacation Ownership Interest Sales. We believe that Gross VOI sales provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are non-tour upgrade sales) divided by the number of tours. We have excluded non-tour upgrade sales in the calculation of VPG because non-tour upgrade sales are generated by a different marketing channel. See Table 9 for a detail of tele-sales upgrades for 2007-2010. We believe that VPG provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the efficiency of this business' tour selling efforts during a given reporting period.
Volume per Guest (VPG):
General
Represents comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency:
 
Table 4
 
: Full year amounts may not foot across due to rounding.
Note
 
Table 5
 
 
 
Table 6
 
 
Table 7
(1 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 8 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 8 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 9
FREE CASH FLOW
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances, excluding cash payments related to the Company's contingent tax liabilities that it assumed and is responsible for pursuant to its separation from Cendant. The Company considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, equity investments and hotel development advances, can be used for strategic opportunities, including making acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing the Company's common stock and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of the Company's operating results to its competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Wyndham Worldwide is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period.
The following table provides more details on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to the non-GAAP financial measure and the related reconciliation between these financial measures:
GROSS VOI SALES
The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales (see Table 3) to Vacation ownership interest sales (see Table 4):
 
The following represents tele-sales upgrades, which are excluded from Gross VOI sales in the Company's VPG calculation (see Table 3):
 


