FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20100518165428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
At the Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 13, 2010, the shareholders of Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors, approved the amendment of the Company's 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan (amended and restated as of May 12, 2009) (the "Plan Amendment"). The Company's Board of Directors had previously adopted the Plan Amendment, subject to shareholder approval.
A brief summary of the Plan Amendment is included as part of the third proposal entitled "Proposal to Approve an Amendment to the Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan (amended and restated as of May 12, 2009)" in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Commission on April 1, 2010. The description of the Plan Amendment contained in the proxy statement is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Plan Amendment, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Company held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 13, 2010. At the Annual Meeting, three proposals were submitted to, and approved by, the Company's shareholders. The proposals are described in more detail in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Commission on April 1, 2010. The final voting results were as follows:
Proposal 1
The Company's shareholders elected the following Directors to serve for a term ending at the 2013 Annual Meeting or until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
Proposal 2
The Company's shareholders ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010.
Proposal 3
The Company's shareholders approved the amendment of the Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan (as amended and restated as of May 12, 2009).
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is filed with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
     WHEREAS, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") maintains the Wyndham Worldwide Corporation 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan (amended and restated as of May 12, 2009) (the "Plan");
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8(d)(ii) of the Plan, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") may at any time, and from time to time, amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders in certain instances specified in the Plan; and
     WHEREAS, the Board desires to amend the Plan as set forth herein, subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders.
     NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to Section 7(d)(ii) of the Plan, effective as of March 26, 2010, the Plan is hereby amended as follows, subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders as noted herein:
     Subject to the approval of the Company's stockholders at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders, the fifth sentence of Section 6(c) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
     "The maximum value of the aggregate payment that any Grantee may receive under the Annual Incentive Program in respect of any Plan Year is $10 million."
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be signed by its officer or representative duly authorized by the Board on this 26 day of March, 2010.
th


