FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20111026064333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended September 30, 2011.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (October 26, 2011)
Highlights:
     "I am pleased once again with our strong results, which reflect outstanding operating performance and the resiliency of our businesses," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "In addition, we continued to thoughtfully deploy our free cash flow to repurchase our common shares and invest in our company."
THIRD QUARTER 2011 OPERATING RESULTS
Third quarter revenues increased 14% from the prior year period to $1.2 billion. The revenue growth reflects strong RevPAR growth of 6.3% in our hotel business, increased rental revenues including contributions from acquisitions of vacation rentals businesses and higher sales in the vacation ownership business.
For the third quarter of 2011, adjusted net income increased 22% to $153 million, compared with $125 million in the third quarter of 2010. On a per share basis, adjusted net income grew 38% to $0.94 per diluted share, compared with $0.68 per diluted share
 
in the same period in 2010. The increase reflects strong operational performance and the benefit from the Company's share repurchase program, partially offset by a higher tax rate compared with the third quarter of 2010. Adjusted net income for the third quarter of 2011 excludes a tax benefit of $13 million related to the reversal of a tax valuation allowance, $7 million, after tax, of interest income related to a refund of value added taxes and a $6 million after-tax net benefit related to the adjustment and resolution of certain contingent liabilities and assets. These adjustments were partially offset by a $4 million after-tax loss related to the write-off of foreign exchange translation adjustments resulting from the liquidation of a foreign entity.
Including the above adjustments, third quarter 2011 net income grew 12% to $175 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, compared with net income of $156 million or $0.84 per diluted share, a 29% increase per share from the third quarter of 2010.
Free cash flow increased 24% to $699 million for the first nine months of 2011, compared with $564 million during the same period in 2010. The growth in free cash flow reflects higher cash earnings, more efficient working capital utilization and a refund of value added taxes and related interest income. For the first nine months, cash provided by operating activities was $860 million, compared with $528 million in the prior year period, which included a $145 million cash payment related to contingent IRS tax liabilities.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues were $222 million in the third quarter of 2011, an increase of 9%, compared with the third quarter of 2010, primarily reflecting improved RevPAR performance, an increase in system size and a $12 million reclassification of certain reservation fees, which had no impact on EBITDA. In the third quarter of 2011, system-wide RevPAR increased 6.3%, or 4.8% in constant currency.
Third quarter 2011 EBITDA of $67 million, was flat, compared with the same period in 2010, primarily reflecting the timing of $3 million in marketing and reservation expenses as well as $3 million of pre-opening costs for the Wyndham Grand Orlando Resort Bonnet Creek.
As of September 30, 2011, the Company's hotel system consisted of approximately 7,190 properties and 611,200 rooms. The development pipeline included approximately 870 hotels and 115,000 rooms, of which 58% were new construction. International rooms accounted for 62% of the development pipeline.
 
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Wyndham Exchange & Rentals)
Revenues were $436 million in the third quarter of 2011, an increase of 32% compared with the third quarter of 2010, reflecting incremental revenues from acquisitions and the favorable impact from foreign currency.
Exchange revenues were $161 million, flat compared with the third quarter of 2010. In constant currency, exchange revenues decreased 3%, reflecting a 2.2% decrease in exchange revenue per member. The average number of members was flat.
Vacation rental revenues were $260 million, which included $83 million of incremental revenues related to acquisitions, compared with $161 million in the third quarter of 2010. In constant currency, excluding the impact of the incremental revenues from acquisitions, net revenues generated from rental transactions and related services increased 2%, reflecting a 1.4% increase in the average net price per vacation rental, while rental transaction volume was flat.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2011 was $135 million, a 30% increase compared with $104 million in the prior year period. The increase reflects incremental contributions from acquisitions and the favorable impact from foreign currency. Third quarter 2011 adjusted EBITDA excludes a $4 million loss related to the write-off of foreign exchange translation adjustments resulting from the liquidation of a foreign entity.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Revenues for the third quarter of 2011 were $559 million, a 5% increase compared with $533 million in the third quarter of 2010, reflecting an increase in Vacation Ownership Interest (VOI) sales and commissions under the Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model (WAAM).
Gross VOI sales were $455 million in the third quarter of 2011, up 10% from the third quarter of 2010, reflecting a 5.6% increase in volume per guest and a 5.3% increase in tour flow.
EBITDA for the third quarter of 2011 increased 21% to $149 million, compared with EBITDA of $123 million in the third quarter of 2010, reflecting the increase in VOI sales and a decrease in cost of sales.
Other Items
 
Balance Sheet Information as of September 30, 2011:
A schedule of debt is included in the financial tables section of this press release.
Outlook
The Company is increasing full-year 2011 adjusted EPS guidance from $2.32  $2.40 to $2.41  $2.45, based on a diluted share count of 167 million.
For the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company expects adjusted EPS of $0.40  $0.44 based on a diluted share count of 158 million.
The Company's preliminary guidance for the full-year 2012 is as follows:
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. Guidance may exclude non-recurring or special items, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions change materially from current levels, these assumptions and our guidance may change materially.
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, October 26, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's website at . An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on October 26, 2011. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing (800) 369-2052 and providing the passcode "WYNDHAM." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available for approximately 90 days
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/
 
beginning at 11:00am EDT on October 26, 2011 by dialing (866) 490-5935 and providing the pass code "8425."
Presentation of Financial Information
Financial information discussed in this press release includes non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported GAAP results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release. It is not practicable to provide a reconciliation of forecasted adjusted EBITDA and EPS to the most directly comparable GAAP measures because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any such items could be significant to our financial results.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality services and products across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Worldwide encompasses approximately 7,360 franchised hotels and vacation ownership resorts with approximately 632,000 rooms worldwide. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals offers leisure travelers, including its 3.7 million members, access to approximately 99,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of vacation ownership resorts serving nearly 815,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 26,000 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's website at .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings and related financial and operating measures.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual
 
results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war, terrorist activity or political strife, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on August 1, 2011. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Margo C. Happer Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (973) 753-6472
Investor and Media contact:
margo.happer@wyn.com
 
Table 1 (1 of 2)
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 1 (2 of 2)
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3 (1 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (2 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (3 of 3)
Lodging
Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, (ii) properties under affiliation agreements for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided or (iii) properties managed under a joint venture.
Number of Rooms:
Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate:
Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR):
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR:
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related services and products.
Average Number of Members:
Represents total annualized revenues generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.
Exchange Revenue Per Member:
Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. One rental transaction is recorded for each standard one-week rental.
Vacation Rental Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers and other related rental servicing fees divided by the number of vacation rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents sales of vacation ownership interest (VOIs), including Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model sales, before the net effect of percentage-of-completion accounting and loan loss provisions. See Table 9 for a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to Vacation Ownership Interest Sales. We believe that Gross VOI sales provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are non-tour upgrade sales) divided by the number of tours. We have excluded non-tour upgrade sales in the calculation of VPG because non-tour upgrade sales are generated by a different marketing channel. See Table 9 for a detail of tele-sales upgrades for 2007-2010. We believe that VPG provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the efficiency of this business' tour selling efforts during a given reporting period.
Volume per Guest (VPG):
General
Represents a comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency:
 
Table 4
 
 
Table 5
 
 
 
Table 6
(1 of 2)
 
 
Table 6
(2 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 8 (1 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (2 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (3 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (4 of 4)
 
EPS amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
 
Table 9
                        
FREE CASH FLOW
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances and excluding cash payments related to the Company's contingent tax liabilities that it assumed and is responsible for pursuant to its separation from Cendant. The Company considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, equity investments and development advances, can be used for strategic opportunities, including making acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing the Company's common stock and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of the Company's operating results to its competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Wyndham Worldwide is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period.
The following table provides more details on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to the non-GAAP financial measure and the related reconciliation between these financial measures:
                        
GROSS VOI SALES
The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales (see Table 3) to Vacation ownership interest sales (see Table 4):
 
The following represents tele-sales upgrades, which are excluded from Gross VOI sales in the Company's VPG calculation (see Table 3):
 


