FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20110727063900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended June 30, 2011.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (July 27, 2011)
Highlights:
"Wyndham Worldwide once again delivered strong results across all three of our businesses, which are each well-positioned to deliver profit growth in the future," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "In addition, we continue to generate significant and growing levels of sustainable free cash flow that we are deploying to drive shareholder value."
SECOND QUARTER 2011 OPERATING RESULTS
Second quarter revenues increased 13% from the prior year period to $1.1 billion. The revenue growth reflects strong RevPAR growth of 9.7% in our hotel business, contributions from acquisitions of vacation rental businesses and higher sales in the vacation ownership business.
For the second quarter of 2011, adjusted net income increased to $108 million, compared with $95 million in the second quarter of 2010. On a per share basis, adjusted net income grew 25% to $0.64 per diluted share, compared with the same period in 2010. The increase reflects strong operational performance by the Company's
 
three business units and the significant benefit from the Company's share repurchase program, partially offset by higher tax rates compared with the second quarter of 2010. Adjusted net income for the second quarter of 2011 excludes an after-tax net benefit of $13 million related to a refund of value added taxes. This was partially offset by $5 million of after-tax costs related to a previously announced restructuring of call centers at the Company's vacation exchange and rentals business and a $2 million after-tax expense related to the resolution of certain contingent liabilities and assets.
Including the above adjustments, second quarter 2011 net income grew 20% to $114 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, compared with net income of $95 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2010.
Free cash flow increased 22% to $595 million for the first half, compared with $486 million during the same period in 2010. The growth in free cash flow reflects higher cash earnings, more efficient working capital utilization and a refund of value added taxes. For the first half, cash provided by operating activities was $696 million, compared with $557 million in the prior year period.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues were $190 million in the second quarter of 2011, an increase of 7%, compared with the second quarter of 2010, reflecting a RevPAR increase and incremental revenues related to the acquisition of the TRYP hotel brand in June of 2010.
In the second quarter of 2011 system-wide RevPAR increased 9.7%. Excluding the impact of the TRYP by Wyndham hotel brand and in constant currency, the increase was 5.8%.
Second quarter 2011 EBITDA was $66 million, an increase of 32%, compared with second quarter 2010 adjusted EBITDA, primarily as a result of the RevPAR improvement and lower bad debt expense.
As of June 30, 2011, the Company's hotel system consisted of approximately 7,220 properties and 612,900 rooms. The development pipeline included over 840 hotels and approximately 111,000 rooms, of which 58% were new construction. International rooms accounted for 64% of the development pipeline.
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Wyndham Exchange & Rentals)
Revenues were $361 million in the second quarter of 2011, an increase of 28% compared with the second quarter of 2010, reflecting incremental revenues from acquisitions and the favorable impact from foreign currency.
 
Exchange revenues were $168 million, an increase of 4%, compared with the second quarter of 2010. In constant currency, exchange revenues increased 2%, reflecting a 1% increase in exchange revenue per member. The average number of members remained relatively flat.
Vacation rental revenues were $180 million, which included $46 million of incremental revenues related to acquisitions, compared with $115 million in the second quarter of 2010. In constant currency, excluding the impact of the incremental revenues from acquisitions, net revenues generated from rental transactions and related services increased 3%, reflecting a 5% increase in the average net price per vacation rental, partially offset by a 1% decline in rental transaction volume.
Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2011 was $82 million, a 5% increase compared with $78 million in the prior year period. The increase reflects incremental contributions from acquisitions. Second quarter 2011 adjusted EBITDA excludes a net benefit of $31 million related to a refund of value added taxes and $7 million of costs related to a previously announced restructuring initiative.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest (VOI) sales were $412 million in the second quarter of 2011, up 11% from the second quarter of 2010, reflecting a 9% increase in tour flow and a 3% increase in volume per guest.
Total segment revenues were $541 million in the second quarter of 2011, compared with $505 million in the second quarter of 2010, reflecting the increase in gross VOI sales and a lower provision for loan losses.
EBITDA for the second quarter of 2011 increased 25% to $130 million, compared with EBITDA of $104 million in the second quarter of 2010. This EBITDA increase reflects the increase in VOI sales and the lower provision for loan losses.
Other Items
 
Balance Sheet Information as of June 30, 2011:
A schedule of debt is included in the financial tables section of this press release.
Outlook
The Company is increasing full-year 2011 adjusted EPS guidance from $2.15  $2.25 to $2.32  $2.40, based on a diluted share count of 171 million.
The Company is increasing full-year 2011 guidance:
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. Guidance may exclude legacy items, restructuring costs, debt extinguishment, asset impairments, value added tax refunds and acquisition costs, if any, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions change materially from current levels, these assumptions and our guidance may change materially. It is not practicable to provide a reconciliation of forecasted adjusted EBITDA and EPS to the most directly comparable GAAP measures because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any such items could be significant to our financial results.
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, July 27, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's website at An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on July 27, 2011. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing (800) 369-2052 and providing the passcode "WYNDHAM." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on July 27, 2011, at (866) 443-1216.
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/.
 
Presentation of Financial Information
Financial information discussed in this press release includes both GAAP and non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality services and products across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Worldwide encompasses approximately 7,380 franchised hotels and vacation ownership resorts with approximately 633,700 rooms worldwide. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals offers leisure travelers, including its 3.8 million members, access to approximately 97,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of vacation ownership resorts serving nearly 815,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 26,000 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit the Company's website at
www.wyndhamworldwide.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings and related financial and operating measures.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war, terrorist activity or political strife, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on April 29, 2011. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it
 
undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Margo C. Happer Senior Vice President, Investor Relations Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (973) 753-6472
Investor and Media contact:
margo.happer@wyn.com
 
Table 1 (1 of 2)
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010:
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 1 (2 of 2)
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010:
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3 (1 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (2 of 3)
 
 
Table 3 (3 of 3)
Lodging
Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, (ii) properties under affiliation agreements for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided or (iii) properties managed under a joint venture.
Number
of
Rooms:
Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate:
Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR):
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR:
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related products and services.
Average
Number
of
Members:
Represents total annualized revenues generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.
Exchange
Revenue
Per
Member:
l Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. One rental transaction is recorded for each standard one-week rental.
Vacation
Renta
Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers and other related rental servicing fees divided by the number of vacation rental transactions.
Average
Net
Price
Per
Vacation
Rental:
Vacation Ownership
s Represents sales of vacation ownership interest (VOIs), including Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model sales, before the net effect of percentage-of-completion accounting and loan loss provisions. See Table 9 for a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to Vacation Ownership Interest Sales. We believe that Gross VOI sales provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.
Gros
Vacation
Ownership
Interest
Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are non-tour upgrade sales) divided by the number of tours. We have excluded non-tour upgrade sales in the calculation of VPG because non-tour upgrade sales are generated by a different marketing channel. See Table 9 for a detail of tele-sales upgrades for 2007-2010. We believe that VPG provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the efficiency of this business' tour selling efforts during a given reporting period.
Volume
per
Guest
(VPG):
General
Represents a comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency:
 
Table 4
 
 
Table 5
 
 
 
Table 6 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 6 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (1 of 2)
 
 
Table 7 (2 of 2)
 
 
Table 8 (1 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (2 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (3 of 4)
 
 
Table 8 (4 of 4)
 
 
Table 9
FREE CASH FLOW                                 
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances, excluding cash payments related to the Company's contingent tax liabilities that it assumed and is responsible for pursuant to its separation from Cendant. The Company considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, equity investments and hotel development advances, can be used for strategic opportunities, including making acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing the Company's common stock and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of the Company's operating results to its competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Wyndham Worldwide is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period.
The following table provides more details on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to the non-GAAP financial measure and the related reconciliation between these financial measures:
GROSS VOI SALES                                 
The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales (see Table 3) to Vacation ownership interest sales (see Table 4):
 
The following represents tele-sales upgrades, which are excluded from Gross VOI sales in the Company's VPG calculation (see Table 3):
 


