FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20121024064256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended September 30, 2012.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (October 24, 2012)
Highlights:
 
 
 
"The third quarter was highlighted by exceptional performance from our Hotel Group," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO. "Our timeshare business delivered another quarter of solid performance and I'm pleased with the ability of our exchange and rentals group to mitigate the impact of economic headwinds in Europe. Our share repurchase program continues to reduce our share count and contribute to strong adjusted EPS growth."
THIRD QUARTER 2012 OPERATING RESULTS
Third quarter revenues were $1.3 billion, an increase of 4% from the prior year period. The increase reflected growth in the Lodging and Vacation Ownership businesses, partially offset by unfavorable currency effects in the Vacation Exchange and Rentals business.
For the third quarter of 2012, adjusted net income was $162 million, or $1.13 per diluted share, compared with $153 million, or $0.94 per diluted share for the same period in 2011. The increase in adjusted net income primarily reflected stronger operating results in the Lodging and Vacation Ownership businesses. EPS also benefited from the Company's share repurchase program, which decreased weighted average share count by 11%.
Reported net income for the third quarter of 2012 was $159 million, or $1.11 per diluted share, compared with net income of $175 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2011. Reported net income included several items not included in adjusted net income. The third quarter of 2012 included $3 million of acquisition costs, legacy adjustments and debt transaction fees. The third quarter of 2011 included a $22 million benefit from adjustments. Full reconciliations of adjusted results to GAAP results appear in Table 8 of this press release.
Free cash flow was $682 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, compared to $703 million for the same period in 2011. Excluding a $67 million benefit from a refund of value added taxes and related interest income received in 2011, free cash flow increased by 7%. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and development advances. For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, net cash provided by operating activities was $808 million, compared with $860 million in the prior year period, which included the benefit from the refund of value added taxes and related interest income.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues were $249 million in the third quarter of 2012, an increase of 12% compared with the third quarter of 2011. The increase primarily reflected RevPAR gains, revenues associated with the Wyndham Grand hotel in Orlando, which opened at the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2011, and higher intersegment licensing fees for use of the Wyndham brand trade name.
EBITDA was $86 million, an increase of 28% compared with the third quarter of 2011, reflecting the revenue increases.
Domestic RevPAR increased 5% compared with the third quarter of 2011. Total system-wide RevPAR increased 2%, or 3% in constant currency.
As of September 30, 2012, the Company's hotel system consisted of nearly 7,260 properties and approximately 618,100 rooms. The development pipeline included approximately 950 hotels and 108,300 rooms, of which 55% were new construction and 47% were international.
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Wyndham Exchange & Rentals)
Revenues were $420 million in the third quarter of 2012, compared to $436 million in the third quarter of 2011. In constant currency and excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues were flat.
Exchange revenues were $157 million, a decrease of 2% compared with the third quarter of 2011. In constant currency, exchange revenues were flat, as a 2% decline in the average number of members was offset by a 1% increase in exchange revenue per member. The decline in the average number of members was due to the non-renewal of an affiliation agreement at the beginning of 2012.
Vacation rental revenues were $248 million, a 5% decrease compared with the third quarter of 2011. In constant currency and excluding acquisitions, vacation rental revenues were flat, reflecting a 3% increase in transaction volume offset by a 2% decrease in the average net price per vacation rental.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2012 was $123 million, down 9% compared with the prior-year period. Adjusted EBITDA was flat excluding the impact of acquisitions and the net effect of foreign currency.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Revenues were $608 million in the third quarter of 2012, a 9% increase over the third quarter of 2011, primarily reflecting increased vacation ownership interest (VOI) sales.
Gross VOI sales were $502 million in the third quarter of 2012, up 10% from the third quarter of 2011, primarily reflecting a 5% increase in both volume per guest and tour flow.
Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2012 was $155 million, a 4% increase compared with the third quarter of 2011. The increase primarily reflects the revenue increases, partially offset by higher sales and marketing expenses related to the increase in VOI sales and higher intersegment licensing fees for use of the Wyndham brand trade name.
Other Items
 
 
Balance Sheet Information as of September 30, 2012:
 
 
 
 
A schedule of debt is included in Table 5 of this press release.
Outlook
For the full year 2012, the Company:
 
 
 
 
The Company's preliminary guidance for the full-year 2013 is as follows:
 
 
 
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. Guidance may exclude non-recurring or special items, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions change materially from current levels, these assumptions and guidance may change materially.
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, October 24, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's website at . An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on October 24, 2012. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing (888) 942-9868 and providing the passcode "WYNDHAM." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on October 24, 2012, at (866) 395-9153.
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/
Presentation of Financial Information
Financial information discussed in this press release includes non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported GAAP results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release. It is not practicable to provide a reconciliation of forecasted adjusted
EBITDA and EPS to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any such items could be significant to the Company's reported results.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
One of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide (NYSE: WYN) provides a wide range of hospitality products and services through its global portfolio of world-renowned brands. The world's largest hotel company based on the number of properties, Wyndham Hotel Group is home to many of the world's best-known hotel brands, with approximately 7,260 franchised hotels and 618,100 hotel rooms worldwide. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals is the worldwide leader in vacation exchange and the world's largest professionally managed vacation rentals business, providing more than 5 million leisure-bound families annually with access to approximately 100,000 vacation properties in 100 countries through its prominent exchange and vacation rental brands. The industry and timeshare ownership market leader, Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets, and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 180 vacation ownership resorts serving more than 915,000 owners throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and the South Pacific. Based in Parsippany, NJ, Wyndham Worldwide employs approximately 27,800 associates globally. For more information, please visit .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings and related financial and operating measures.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war, terrorist activity or political strife, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on July 25, 2012. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Investor and Media contact:
Margo C. Happer
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
(973) 753-6472
margo.happer@wyn.com
Barry Goldschmidt
Vice President, Investor Relations
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
(973) 753-7703
barry.goldschmidt@wyn.com
Table 1
(1 of 2)
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), early extinguishment of debt, interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income attributable to Wyndham shareholders for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011:
 
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the three months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 1
(2 of 2)
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income attributable to Wyndham shareholders for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011:
 
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 2
 
 
 
Table 3
(1 of 3)
 
 
Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 3
(2 of 3)
 
 
Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 3
(3 of 3)
Lodging
: Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, or company owned, (ii) properties under affiliation agreements for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided and (iii) properties managed under a joint venture.
Number of Rooms
: Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate
: Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR)
: Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
: Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who paid annual membership dues as of the end of the period or within the allowed grace period. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related services and products.
Average Number of Members
: Represents total annualized revenues generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.
Exchange Revenue Per Member
: Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. One rental transaction is recorded for each standard one-week rental.
Vacation Rental Transactions
: Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers and other related rental servicing fees divided by the number of vacation rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental
Vacation Ownership
: Represents sales of vacation ownership interest (VOIs), including Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model sales, before the net effect of percentage-of-completion accounting and loan loss provisions. See Table 9 for a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to Vacation Ownership Interest Sales. We believe that Gross VOI sales provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales
: Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours
: Represents gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are non-tour upgrade sales) divided by the number of tours. We have excluded non-tour upgrade sales in the calculation of VPG because non-tour upgrade sales are generated by a different marketing channel. See Table 9 for a detail of tele-sales upgrades for 2009-2012. We believe that VPG provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the efficiency of this business' tour selling efforts during a given reporting period.
Volume per Guest (VPG)
General
: Represents a comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency
Table 4
 
 
: Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note
Table 5
 
 
Table 6
(1 of 2)
 
 
A glossary of terms is included in Table 3 (3 of 3); RevPAR may not recalculate by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR due to rounding.
NOTE:
Table 6
(2 of 2)
 
 
A glossary of terms is included in Table 3 (3 of 3); RevPAR may not recalculate by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR due to rounding.
NOTE:
Table 7
(1 of 2)
 
 
Table 7
(2 of 2)
 
 
Table 8
(1 of 4)
 
 
Table 8
(2 of 4)
 
 
EPS amounts may not add due to rounding.
Note:
Table 8
(3 of 4)
 
 
EPS amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 8
(4 of 4)
 
 
Table 9
FREE CASH FLOW
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and development advances. The Company considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment and development advances, can be used for strategic opportunities, including making acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing the Company's common stock and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of the Company's operating results to its competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Wyndham Worldwide is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period.
The following table provides more details on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to the non-GAAP financial measure and the related reconciliation between these financial measures:
 
GROSS VOI SALES
The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales (see Table 3) to Vacation ownership interest sales (see Table 4):
 
 
Amounts may not add due to rounding.
Note:
The following includes primarily tele-sales upgrades and other non-tour revenues, which are excluded from Gross VOI sales in the Company's VPG calculation (see Table 3):
 
 
Amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:


