FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20120425064556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months ended March 31, 2012.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (April 25, 2012)
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
"First quarter results were strong, reflecting the power of our fee-for-service business model across economic cycles, continuing innovation throughout the Company, robust free cash flow and disciplined capital allocation," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "Furthermore, consumers are traveling. Our Vacation Ownership and Hotel businesses are showing great momentum and our Exchange and Rentals business proved resilient despite the difficult economic climate in Europe. As always, we will continue to focus on driving operational improvements in 2012 and beyond."
FIRST QUARTER 2012 OPERATING RESULTS
First quarter revenues were $1.0 billion, an increase of 9% from the prior year period. The increase reflects growth in all of our business units led by the Company's Lodging and Vacation Ownership businesses.
For the first quarter of 2012, adjusted net income was $90 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, compared with $79 million, or $0.44 per diluted share for the same period in 2011. The increase in adjusted net income primarily reflects stronger operating results in our Lodging and Vacation Ownership businesses. Adjusted net income for the first quarter of 2012 excludes a $62 million early extinguishment charge related to $650 million of debt tender offers and $4 million of benefits related to legacy and other adjustments. Full reconciliations of adjusted results to GAAP results appear in Table 8 of this press release.
Including the early extinguishment charge and legacy benefits, reported net income for the first quarter of 2012 was $32 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared with net income of $72 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2011.
Free cash flow increased 4% to $193 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, compared with $185 million during the same period in 2011. The growth in free cash flow primarily reflects reduced capital expenditures. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances. For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, cash provided by operating activities was $228 million, compared with $229 million in the prior year period.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues were $185 million in the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 24%, compared with the first quarter of 2011. The increase reflects domestic RevPAR gains of 9%, as part of a total system RevPAR improvement of 7%, revenues associated with the recently opened Wyndham Grand hotel in Orlando, and higher inter-segment licensing fees for use of the Wyndham brand trade name. The revenue increase also includes $10 million of reclassifications, primarily related to certain reservation fees, which had no impact on Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA was $49 million, an increase of 23% compared with the first quarter of 2011, largely reflecting the revenue increases discussed above, partially offset by the operating costs associated with the recently opened Wyndham Grand hotel and higher marketing costs. Excluding the higher inter-segment licensing fees, Adjusted EBITDA increased by 13%.
As of March 31, 2012, the Company's hotel system consisted of over 7,150 properties and approximately 609,300 rooms. The development pipeline included approximately 840 hotels and 108,200 rooms, of which 56% were new construction and 55% were international.
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Wyndham Exchange & Rentals)
Revenues were $361 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $356 million in the first quarter of 2011. In constant currency and excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues were flat.
Exchange revenues were $188 million, a decrease of 3% compared with the first quarter of 2011, primarily due to a 2% decline in the average number of members resulting from the non-renewal of an affiliation agreement. In constant currency, exchange revenues were down 2% and exchange revenue per member was flat.
Vacation rental revenues were $159 million, a 6% increase compared with the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and acquisitions, vacation rental revenues were up 3% primarily due to a 2% increase in vacation rental transactions. Average net price per vacation rental remained flat.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2012 was $93 million, flat compared with the prior-year period. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and acquisitions, Adjusted EBITDA declined by 2%, reflecting the continued economic challenges in Europe.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Revenues were $501 million in the first quarter of 2012, an 11% increase over the first quarter of 2011, primarily reflecting increased vacation ownership interest (VOI) sales.
Gross VOI sales were $384 million in the first quarter of 2012, up 20% from the first quarter of 2011, primarily reflecting a 10% increase in volume per guest and an 8% increase in tour flow.
Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2012 was $103 million, a 7% increase compared with the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the higher inter-segment licensing fee paid for the use of the Wyndham brand trade name, Adjusted EBITDA increased by 11%, reflecting contributions from increased VOI sales.
Other Items
 
 
 
 
A portion of the proceeds was used to reduce revolver borrowings by approximately $170 million.
Balance Sheet Information as of March 31, 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
A schedule of debt is included in Table 5 of this press release.
Outlook
For the full year 2012, the Company:
 
 
 
 
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. Guidance may exclude non-recurring or special items, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions change materially from current levels, these assumptions and our guidance may change materially.
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, April 25, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's website at . An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on April 25, 2012. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing (800) 369-2052 and providing the passcode "WYNDHAM." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EDT on April 25, 2012, at (800) 839-5569.
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/
Presentation of Financial Information
Financial information discussed in this press release includes non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported GAAP results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant
period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release. It is not practicable to provide a reconciliation of forecasted adjusted EBITDA and EPS to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any such items could be significant to our reported results.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses over 7,150 hotels with approximately 609,300 rooms worldwide. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals offers leisure travelers, including its 3.7 million members, access to approximately 100,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 160 vacation ownership resorts serving over 813,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 27,800 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings, share repurchases and related financial and operating measures.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war, terrorist activity or political strife, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on February 17, 2012. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Investor and Media contact:
Margo C. Happer
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
(973) 753-6472
margo.happer@wyn.com
Table 1
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income attributable to Wyndham Worldwide for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011:
 
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3
(1 of 3)
 
 
 
Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 3
(2 of 3)
 
 
 
Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 3
(3 of 3)
 
Lodging
Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, or company owned, (ii) properties under affiliation agreements for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided or (iii) properties managed under a joint venture.
Number
of
Rooms:
Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate:
Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR):
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR:
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related services and products.
Average
Number
of
Members:
Represents total annualized revenues generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.
Exchange
Revenue
Per
Member:
Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. One rental transaction is recorded for each standard one-week rental.
Vacation
Rental
Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers and other related rental servicing fees divided by the number of vacation rental transactions.
Average
Net
Price
Per
Vacation
Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents sales of vacation ownership interest (VOIs), including Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model sales, before the net effect of percentage-of-completion accounting and loan loss provisions. See Table 9 for a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to Vacation Ownership Interest Sales. We believe that Gross VOI sales provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.
Gross
Vacation
Ownership
Interest
Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are non-tour upgrade sales) divided by the number of tours. We have excluded non-tour upgrade sales in the calculation of VPG because non-tour upgrade sales are generated by a different marketing channel. See Table 9 for a detail of tele-sales upgrades for 2009-2012. We believe that VPG provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the efficiency of this business' tour selling efforts during a given reporting period.
Volume
per
Guest
(VPG):
General
Represents a comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency:
Table 4
 
 
: Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note
Table 5
 
 
Table 6
 
 
 
A glossary of terms is included in Table 3 (3 of 3); RevPAR may not recalculate by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR due to rounding.
NOTE:
Table 7
(1 of 2)
 
 
 
Table 7
(2 of 2)
 
 
 
Table 8
(1 of 2)
 
 
 
  EPS amounts may not add due to rounding.
Note:
Table 8
(2 of 2)
 
 
 
EPS amounts may not foot due to rounding.
Note:
Table 9
FREE CASH FLOW                                
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances and excluding cash payments related to the Company's contingent tax liabilities that it assumed and is responsible for pursuant to its separation from Cendant. The Company considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, equity investments and development advances, can be used for strategic opportunities, including making acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing the Company's common stock and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of the Company's operating results to its competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Wyndham Worldwide is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period.
The following table provides more details on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to the non-GAAP financial measure and the related reconciliation between these financial measures:
 
GROSS VOI SALES
The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales (see Table 3) to Vacation ownership interest sales (see Table 4):
 
 
Amounts may not add due to rounding.
Note:
The following includes primarily tele-sales upgrades and other non-tour revenues, which are excluded from Gross VOI sales in the Company's VPG calculation (see Table 3):
 
 
Amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:


