FILE:WYN/WYN-8K-20120208065359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (the "Company") today issued a press release reporting financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.
A copy of the Company's press release is furnished as and is incorporated by reference.
Exhibit 99.1
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (NYSE:WYN) today announced results for the three months and year ended December 31, 2011.
PARSIPPANY, N.J. (February 8, 2012)
Highlights:
 
 
 
 
"2011 was another excellent year for our company," said Stephen P. Holmes, chairman and CEO, Wyndham Worldwide. "In an environment of ongoing economic uncertainty, our businesses continued to execute at a high level. As expected, we generated robust free cash flow and effectively deployed that cash flow. We remain well positioned for growth and that confidence is reflected in the 53% dividend increase authorized by our Board of Directors."
FOURTH QUARTER 2011 OPERATING RESULTS
Fourth quarter revenues increased 7% from the prior year period to $1.0 billion. The increase reflects organic growth in the Company's Lodging and Vacation Ownership businesses and incremental contributions from acquisitions at its Vacation Exchange and Rentals business.
For the fourth quarter of 2011, adjusted net income was $73 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, compared with $84 million, or $0.46 per diluted share for the same period in 2010. The decrease in adjusted net income primarily reflects a higher adjusted tax rate and higher adjusted net interest expense. Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 excludes $27 million, after-tax, of non-cash impairment charges at our Lodging business, a $7 million tax benefit related to value added tax (VAT) adjustments, and a $3 million tax benefit related to legacy adjustments. Full reconciliations of adjusted results to GAAP results appear in Table 8 of this press release.
Reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $56 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, compared with net income of $78 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2010.
FULL YEAR 2011 OPERATING RESULTS
Reported revenues for full year 2011 were $4.3 billion, an increase of 10% over the prior-year period. The revenue increase resulted from higher RevPAR in the Lodging business, higher Vacation Ownership Interest (VOI) sales and Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model (WAAM) commissions in the Vacation Ownership business, and contributions from acquisitions along with higher average net price per vacation rental in the Vacation Exchange and Rentals business. Adjusted net income for the full year 2011 was $414 million or $2.49 per diluted share, compared with $368 million or $2.00 per diluted share for the prior-year period. Adjusted net income for the full year 2011 excludes an aggregate of $3 million of net benefits, after tax. Full reconciliations of adjusted results to GAAP results appear in Table 8 of this press release.
Reported net income for full year 2011 was $417 million, or $2.51 per diluted share, compared with net income of $379 million, or $2.05 per diluted share, for the prior-year period.
Free cash flow increased to $754 million in the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with $603 million in the same period in 2010. The growth of free cash flow largely reflects stronger operating results and a $67 million benefit generated by a refund of VAT and related interest income. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances and excludes a 2010 cash payment of $145 million related to contingent IRS tax liabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2011, cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 billion compared with $635 million for the prior-year period.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
Lodging (Wyndham Hotel Group)
Revenues were $188 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, an increase of 15%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2010, reflecting a RevPAR improvement of 5% and revenues associated with the newly opened Wyndham Grand hotel in Orlando. The revenue increase also included a $15 million reclassification, primarily related to certain reservation fees, which had no impact on EBITDA.
Excluding $44 million of non-cash impairment charges, adjusted EBITDA was $41 million, an increase of 3% compared with the fourth quarter of 2010, largely reflecting RevPAR improvement and lower bad debt expense. These benefits were partially offset by the timing of higher marketing costs.
As of December 31, 2011, the Company's hotel system consisted of 7,205 properties and over 613,100 rooms. The development pipeline included nearly 850 hotels and 111,900 rooms, of which 57% were new construction and 60% were international.
Vacation Exchange and Rentals (Wyndham Exchange & Rentals)
Revenues were $291 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, an increase of 3% compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. In constant currency and excluding the impact of acquisitions, revenues were flat.
Exchange revenues were $150 million, a decrease of 2% compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. The average number of members was flat. In constant currency, exchange revenues and exchange revenue per member were also flat.
Vacation rental revenues were $125 million, a 10% increase compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding the impact of foreign currency and acquisitions, vacation rental revenues were flat as a 5% increase in the average net price per vacation rental was offset by a 5% decline in vacation rental transactions.
Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2011 decreased $4 million compared with the prior-year period, reflecting the impact of unfavorable foreign currency and the seasonality of recently acquired businesses.
Vacation Ownership (Wyndham Vacation Ownership)
Revenues were $527 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, a 6% increase over the fourth quarter of 2010, reflecting increased VOI sales and WAAM commissions.
Gross VOI sales were $409 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, up 10% from the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily reflecting an 8% increase in tour flow and a 4% increase in volume per guest.
EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $139 million, compared with EBITDA of $131 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, a 6% increase. EBITDA growth includes contributions from increased VOI sales and WAAM commissions.
Other Items
Balance Sheet Information as of December 31, 2011:
A schedule of debt is included in Table 5 of this press release.
Outlook
For the full year 2012, the Company expects:
The guidance reflects assumptions used for internal planning purposes. Guidance may exclude non-recurring or special items, which may have a positive or negative impact on reported results. If economic conditions change materially from current levels, these assumptions and our guidance may change materially.
Conference Call Information
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation will hold a conference call with investors to discuss this news on Wednesday, February 8, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. EST. Listeners may access the webcast live through the Company's website at . An archive of this webcast will be available at the website for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EST on February 8, 2012. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing (800) 369-2052 and providing the passcode "WYNDHAM." Listeners are urged to call at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A telephone replay will be available for approximately 90 days beginning at noon EST on February 8, 2012, at (800) 947-6332.
www.wyndhamworldwide.com/investors/
Presentation of Financial Information
Financial information discussed in this press release includes non-GAAP measures, which include or exclude certain items. These non-GAAP measures differ from reported GAAP results and are intended to illustrate what management believes are relevant period-over-period comparisons. A complete reconciliation of reported GAAP results to the comparable non-GAAP information appears in the financial tables section of the press release. It is not practicable to provide a reconciliation of forecasted adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP measure because certain items cannot be reasonably estimated or predicted at this time. Any such items could be significant to our reported results.
About Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
As one of the world's largest hospitality companies, Wyndham Worldwide offers individual consumers and business-to-business customers a broad suite of hospitality products and services across various accommodation alternatives and price ranges through its premier portfolio of world-renowned brands. Wyndham Hotel Group encompasses 7,205 hotels with approximately 613,100 rooms worldwide. Wyndham Exchange & Rentals offers leisure travelers, including its 3.7 million members, access to approximately 100,000 vacation properties located in approximately 100 countries. Wyndham Vacation Ownership develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests and provides consumer financing to owners through its network of over 160 vacation ownership resorts serving over 813,000 owners throughout North America, the Caribbean and the South Pacific. Wyndham Worldwide, headquartered in Parsippany, N.J., employs approximately 27,800 employees globally.
For more information about Wyndham Worldwide, please visit .
www.wyndhamworldwide.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, conveying management's expectations as to the future based on plans, estimates and projections at the time the Company makes the statements. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this press release include statements related to the Company's revenues, earnings, dividends and related financial and operating measures.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include general economic conditions, the performance of the financial and credit markets, the economic environment for the hospitality industry, the impact of war, terrorist activity or political strife, operating risks associated with the hotel, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation
ownership businesses, as well as those described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed with the SEC on October 26, 2011. Except for the Company's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the federal securities laws, it undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Investor and Media contact:
Margo C. Happer
Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
Wyndham Worldwide Corporation
(973) 753-6472
margo.happer@wyn.com
Table 1
(1 of 2)
In addition to other measures, management evaluates the operating results of each of its reportable segments based upon net revenues and "EBITDA," which is defined as net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense (excluding consumer financing interest), interest income (excluding consumer financing interest) and income taxes, each of which is presented on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company believes that EBITDA is a useful measure of performance for the Company's industry segments which, when considered with GAAP measures, the Company believes gives a more complete understanding of its operating performance. The Company's presentation of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures used by other companies.
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the three months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the three months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 1
(2 of 2)
The following tables summarize net revenues and EBITDA for reportable segments, as well as reconcile EBITDA to net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
 
The following tables summarize net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for reportable segments for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 (for a description of adjustments by segment, see Table 7):
 
Table 2
 
 
Table 3
(1 of 3)
 
 
Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 3
(2 of 3)
 
 
Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 3
(3 of 3)
Lodging
Represents the number of rooms at lodging properties at the end of the period which are either (i) under franchise and/or management agreements, (ii) properties under affiliation agreements for which we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided or (iii) properties managed under a joint venture.
Number of Rooms:
Represents the percentage of available rooms occupied during the period.
Average Occupancy Rate:
Represents the average rate charged for renting a lodging room for one day.
Average Daily Rate (ADR):
Represents revenue per available room and is calculated by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR. Comparable RevPAR represents RevPAR of hotels which are included in both periods.
RevPAR:
Vacation Exchange and Rentals
Represents members in our vacation exchange programs who pay annual membership dues. For additional fees, such participants are entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition, certain participants may exchange intervals for other leisure-related services and products.
Average Number of Members:
Represents total annualized revenues generated from fees associated with memberships, exchange transactions, member-related rentals and other servicing for the period divided by the average number of vacation exchange members during the period.
Exchange Revenue Per Member:
Represents the number of transactions that are generated in connection with customers booking their vacation rental stays through us. One rental transaction is recorded for each standard one-week rental.
Vacation Rental Transactions:
Represents the net rental price generated from renting vacation properties to customers and other related rental servicing fees divided by the number of vacation rental transactions.
Average Net Price Per Vacation Rental:
Vacation Ownership
Represents sales of vacation ownership interest (VOIs), including Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model sales, before the net effect of percentage-of-completion accounting and loan loss provisions. See Table 9 for a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales to Vacation Ownership Interest Sales. We believe that Gross VOI sales provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the sales volume of this business during a given reporting period.
Gross Vacation Ownership Interest Sales:
Represents the number of tours taken by guests in our efforts to sell vacation ownership interests.
Tours:
Represents gross VOI sales (excluding tele-sales upgrades, which are non-tour upgrade sales) divided by the number of tours. We have excluded non-tour upgrade sales in the calculation of VPG because non-tour upgrade sales are generated by a different marketing channel. See Table 9 for a detail of tele-sales upgrades for 2007-2010. We believe that VPG provides an enhanced understanding of the performance of our vacation ownership business because it directly measures the efficiency of this business' tour selling efforts during a given reporting period.
Volume per Guest (VPG):
General
Represents a comparison eliminating the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations between periods.
Constant Currency:
Table 4
 
 
: Full year amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note
Table 5
 
 
 
 
Table 6
(1 of 2)
 
 
A glossary of terms is included in Table 3 (3 of 3); RevPAR may not recalculate by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR due to rounding.
NOTE:
Table 6
(2 of 2)
 
 
A glossary of terms is included in Table 3 (3 of 3); RevPAR may not recalculate by multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR due to rounding.
NOTE:
Table 7
(1 of 2)
 
 
Table 7
(2 of 2)
 
 
Amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 8
(1 of 4)
 
 
 
EPS amounts may not add due to rounding.
Note:
Table 8
(2 of 4)
 
 
EPS amounts may not add due to rounding.
Note:
Table 8
(3 of 4)
 
 
EPS amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 8
(4 of 4)
 
 
EPS amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:
Table 9
FREE CASH FLOW                        
The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures, equity investments and development advances and excluding cash payments related to the Company's contingent tax liabilities that it assumed and is responsible for pursuant to its separation from Cendant. The Company considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that, after the acquisition of property and equipment, equity investments and development advances, can be used for strategic opportunities, including making acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing the Company's common stock and strengthening the balance sheet. Analysis of free cash flow also facilitates management's comparisons of the Company's operating results to its competitors' operating results. A limitation of using free cash flow versus the GAAP measure of net cash provided by operating activities as a means for evaluating Wyndham Worldwide is that free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance from operations for the period.
The following table provides more details on the GAAP financial measure that is most directly comparable to the non-GAAP financial measure and the related reconciliation between these financial measures:
 
GROSS VOI SALES                        
The following table provides a reconciliation of Gross VOI sales (see Table 3) to Vacation ownership interest sales (see Table 4):
 
 
Amounts may not add across due to rounding.
Note:


