FILE:UPS/UPS-8K-20040723123826.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 22, 2004 ------------- United Parcel Service, Inc. --------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 001-15451 58-2480149 -------- --------- ---------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction File Number) Identification Number) of incorporation) 55 Glenlake Parkway, N.E. Atlanta, Georgia 30328 ---------------- ----- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (404) 828-6000 ------------- Not applicable -------------- (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. 99.1 Press Release dated July 22, 2004. Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On July 22, 2004, United Parcel Service, Inc. issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Signatures Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. Date: July 23, 2004 By: /s/ D. Scott Davis --------------------------- Name: D. Scott Davis Title: Senior Vice President, Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX 99.1 Press Release dated July 22, 2004.

EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contacts: Peggy Gardner, Public Relations 404-828-6051 Teresa Finley, Investor Relations 404-828-7359 UPS 2ND QUARTER EARNINGS CLIMB OVER 18% AS PACKAGE BUSINESS GROWS WORLDWIDE COMPANY RAISES FULL-YEAR EARNINGS EXPECTATIONS ATLANTA, July 22, 2004 - UPS (NYSE:UPS) today reported an 18.2% gain in net income for the second quarter on a 7.8% increase in revenue with strong growth in its global small package business. In addition, the company raised its future guidance and expects full year 2004 earnings growth to approach 20%. Previously, the company's guidance called for 2004 earnings at the upper end of a 12-to-18% range. In the second quarter, total average daily package volume worldwide rose to 13.6 million, a net gain of 550,000 packages per day compared to the prior-year period. Average daily ground volume within the United States climbed almost 5%. International export volume increased 13% with double-digit growth in all regions of the world, led by China with a gain of almost 70%. "Our global small package business is vibrant and growing," said Scott Davis, UPS's chief financial officer. "This strong growth is being fueled by our integrated customer technologies, expanded supply chain capabilities and superior service and reliability." For the three months ended June 30, consolidated revenue totaled $8.87 billion, up 7.8% from the $8.23 billion reported during the prior-year period. Consolidated operating profit jumped 21.3% to $1.31 billion. Net income totaled $818 million. Earnings per diluted share were $0.72, up 18% from the $0.61 reported for the second quarter of 2003. Operating profit and net income for the period a year ago were impacted by a pre-tax loss from the sale of the company's Mail Technologies unit, which was more than offset by a related tax benefit. Adjusting for that prior year reduction in operating profit of $24 million and net income benefit of $14 million, operating profit for the current period rose 18.7% and net income rose 20.6%. Earnings per diluted share rose 20% from the adjusted $0.60 per share reported last year. - more -
2-2-2 For the six months ended June 30, consolidated revenues totaled $17.79 billion, an increase of 9.5% compared to the prior-year period. Operating profit totaled $2.53 billion, a gain of 24.8% compared to the period in 2003. Net income increased 21% to $1.58 billion over the earlier period. In addition to the impact of the sale of Mail Technologies, the company's results for the first six months of 2003 were affected by a first quarter write-down in marketable securities, and a reduction to income tax expense resulting from the resolution of various tax matters with the IRS. Adjusting for the impact of these items, operating profit for the first six months of 2004 rose 23.3% and net income improved by 24.1%. Second quarter highlights by company segments included: [X] International package revenues climbed almost 18% to $1.61 billion as average daily package volume rose 8.5%. Asia export volume increased 17% and U.S. export volume grew an industry-leading 12%. Operating profit soared 72% to $272 million. This unit now contributes more than 20% of UPS's total operating profit. [X] U.S. package revenue rose 5.8% to $6.48 billion. Operating profit climbed 7.2% to $892 million and operating margin improved 20 basis points to 13.8%, the highest in two years. Average daily ground volume in the U.S. showed a strong 4.9% gain, contributing to a total domestic volume increase of 3.8%. Next Day Air(R) package volume saw robust growth that actually exceeded the growth rate of ground volume, offsetting the decline in air letter volume stemming from the unusually high mortgage refinancing activity last year. Average revenue per piece rose for all products, with the overall U.S. average revenue per piece increasing 2%. [X] Revenue for the non-package segment grew 6.4% to $778 million, while operating profit climbed 62%. Excluding the loss from the 2003 sale of the Mail Technologies business, operating profit increased 28.1%. Revenue for UPS Supply Chain Solutions, the largest unit in the non-package segment, increased 7.2% to $568 million. Several developments during the second quarter positioned the company well for future growth. The United States and China agreed to significantly expand aviation rights, unique customer services were developed or enhanced with eBay, Yahoo! Small Business and Toshiba, and UPS Supply Chain Solutions launched a service to help businesses recycle or dispose of unwanted electronics.
- more - 3-3-3 "The breadth of solutions we bring to our customers is a unique competitive advantage," Davis said. "It is allowing us to deepen our relationships with customers, which is producing bottom-line benefits to all three segments of our business." Davis said the company projects third quarter earnings to increase over last year to the range of $0.69 to $0.72 per diluted share and expects full year 2004 earnings growth approaching 20%, compared with last year's adjusted earnings per share of $2.44. UPS is the world's largest package delivery company and a global leader in supply chain services, offering an extensive range of options for synchronizing the movement of goods, information and funds. Headquartered in Atlanta, Ga., UPS serves more than 200 countries and territories worldwide. UPS's stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (UPS) and the company can be found on the Web at UPS.com. # # # EDITOR'S NOTE: UPS CFO Scott Davis will discuss second quarter results with investors and analysts during a conference call later today at 10:00 a.m. EDT. That conference call is open to listeners through a live Webcast. To access the call, go to www.shareholder.com/UPS and click on "Earnings Webcast." We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including, as applicable, "as adjusted" operating profit, operating margin, net income and earnings per share. We believe that these adjusted measures provide meaningful information to assist investors and analysts in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. We believe these adjusted financial measures are important indicators of our recurring operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Furthermore, we use these adjusted financial measures to determine awards for our management personnel under our incentive compensation plan. In the second quarter of 2003, we recorded a $24 million pre-tax loss and a $38 million tax benefit on the sale of our Mail Technologies business. In the first quarter of 2003, we incurred a $58 million pre-tax impairment charge related to the Company's investment in S&P 500 equity portfolios and benefited from a $55 million reduction to income tax expense due to the resolution of various tax issues with the Internal Revenue Service. We presented operating profit, net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of these items as we believe these adjusted measures better enable shareowners to focus on period-over-period operating performance. We believe it is useful to present operating profit, net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of the sale of Mail Technologies as this sale has minimal implications on future financial performance. We believe it is useful to present net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of the impairment charge because the Company has been significantly reducing the size of its equity portfolio investments and such investments are not a core business of the Company. We also believe it is useful to present net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of the resolution of the tax issues because the underlying matters that produced the tax benefits were unique and, as resolved, have no bearing on future anticipated tax expense.
- more - 4-4-4 Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP operating profit, operating margin, net income and earnings per share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. Except for historical information contained herein, the statements made in this release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of UPS and its management regarding the company's strategic directions, prospects and future results, involve certain risks and uncertainties. Certain factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements, including economic and other conditions in the markets in which we operate, governmental regulations, our competitive environment, strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns, increases in aviation and motor fuel prices, cyclical and seasonal fluctuations in our operating results, and other risks discussed in the company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference.
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - SECOND QUARTER (a) The Company recognized a $24 million pre-tax loss and a $38 million tax benefit from the sale of its former Mail Technologies unit. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 1
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. SELECTED OPERATING DATA - SECOND QUARTER Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 2
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - YEAR-TO-DATE (a) The Company recognized a $24 million pre-tax loss and a $38 million tax benefit from the sale of its former Mail Technologies unit in the second quarter of 2003. (b) The Company recognized a $58 million investment impairment charge ($37 million after tax) during the first quarter of 2003. (c) The Company recognized a $55 million credit to tax expense for the resolution of various tax contingencies in the first quarter of 2003. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 3
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. SELECTED OPERATING DATA - YEAR-TO-DATE Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 4


