FILE:UPS/UPS-8K-20070726174615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 24, 2007, United Parcel Service, Inc. issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the second quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
99.1       Press release dated July 24, 2007
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1       Press Release dated July 24, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
     ATLANTA, July 24, 2007  UPS (NYSE:UPS) today reported a solid 7.2% increase in diluted earnings per share for the second quarter to $1.04 on a 3.9% gain in revenue. Strong performance by the international package segment and encouraging trends in supply chain and freight overcame a challenging U.S. small package market.
     International export revenues jumped 14% on double-digit volume growth. UPS Freight less-than-truckload (LTL) revenue climbed 10.5% on a 12% increase in shipments.
     "The company's total performance reflects the benefits of our truly global network," said Mike Eskew, UPS's chairman and CEO. "Strong gains in our international package segment offset a lack of growth in the U.S. business. We're also executing well in our supply chain and freight business and are pleased with the profit improvements in this segment. We remain confident in the long-term growth prospects that the dynamic global marketplace offers UPS."
     For the three months ended June 30, 2007, net income rose 4.1% to $1.1 billion. Operating margin increased to 14.5% with improvements in both the international package and supply chain and freight segments.
Cash Position
     UPS closed the quarter with $2.1 billion in cash and marketable securities. For the first six months, UPS also:
 
2-2-2
     Ground volume was flat during the quarter, reflecting declining growth rates in both industrial production and business-to-consumer shipments. Next Day Air volume increased 1.6% to partially offset a 4% decline in deferred air volume. Total U.S. revenue per piece remained firm, up 1.7%, with revenue per piece on ground volume rising 3%.
     Total export volume increased 10.4%. Europe posted a double-digit export volume gain, reflecting strong cross-border growth. Asia export volume jumped 25% with particularly strong growth out of China. For the segment, operating profit increased 14.7% and margins expanded 50 basis points to 19%.
     The forwarding and logistics business continues to benefit from the performance improvement initiatives launched in the second half of 2006. UPS Freight, which has been investing significantly to update customer service and technology systems, reported a strong gain in second quarter revenue to $549 million.
Outlook
     "We see increasing benefits for the company due to investments in both ground, air and ocean freight capabilities as well as further expansion globally of our small package business," said Scott Davis, UPS's vice chairman and CFO. "Toward the end of the year, we expect the small package market to more closely correlate to U.S. economic trends and as a result, we should see gradual volume growth in our U.S. package business."
     UPS expects diluted earnings per share for the third quarter to fall within a range of $0.99 to $1.04 compared to the $0.96 reported for the prior-year period. Davis also reaffirmed the company's annual target of a 6-to-10 percent increase in adjusted diluted earnings per share.
 
3-3-3
     UPS, which celebrates its 100 anniversary in 2007, is the world's largest package delivery company and a global leader in supply chain services, offering an extensive range of options for synchronizing the movement of goods, information and funds. Headquartered in Atlanta, Ga., UPS serves more than 200 countries and territories worldwide. UPS's stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (UPS) and the company can be found on the Web at UPS.com. To get UPS news direct, visit .
th
pressroom.ups.com/RSS
UPS Chairman and CEO Mike Eskew and Vice Chairman and CFO Scott Davis will discuss second quarter results with investors and analysts during a conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EDT. That conference call is open to listeners through a live Webcast. To access the call, go to and click on "Earnings Webcast."
EDITOR'S NOTE:
www.shareholder.com/UPS
     We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including, as applicable, "as adjusted" operating profit, operating margin, pre-tax income, net income and earnings per share. We believe that these adjusted measures provide meaningful information to assist investors and analysts in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. We believe these adjusted financial measures are important indicators of our recurring operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a better baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. Furthermore, we use these adjusted financial measures to determine awards for our management personnel under our incentive compensation plans. We also provide the amount of our free cash flow to supplement our cash flow determined under GAAP. We define free cash flow as net cash from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditures, proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment, net change in finance receivables and other investing activities. We believe free cash flow is an important measure in assessing the generation of cash for discretionary investments and dividends.
     In the first quarter of 2007, we recorded a $221 million pre-tax impairment charge related to aircraft and a $68 million pre-tax charge related to cash payouts and the acceleration of stock compensation and certain retiree healthcare benefits for employees who accepted a voluntary separation opportunity. We presented first quarter 2007 operating profit, operating margin, pre-tax income, net income and earnings per share excluding the impact of these items as we believe these adjusted measures better enable shareowners to focus on period-over-period operating performance. The underlying matters that produced the impairment charge and the charge related to the voluntary separation opportunity were unique, and we do not believe they are reflective of the types of charges that will affect future anticipated results.
     Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP operating profit, operating margin, net income and earnings per share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the preceding reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
     Except for historical information contained herein, the statements made in this release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements, including statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of UPS and its management regarding the company's strategic directions, prospects and future results, involve certain risks and uncertainties. Certain factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements, including economic and other conditions in the markets in which we operate, governmental regulations, our competitive environment, strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns, increases in aviation and motor fuel prices, cyclical and seasonal fluctuations in our operating results, and other risks discussed in the company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
(1) 2007 adjusted operating profit and income before income taxes exclude an impairment charge on Boeing 727 and 747 aircraft, and related engines and parts, of $221 million ($159 million U.S. Domestic Package and $62 million International Package), due to the acceleration of the planned retirement of these aircraft.
2007 adjusted operating profit and income before income taxes also exclude a charge related to the special voluntary separation opportunity ("SVSO"), which was offered to approximately 640 employees who work in non-operating functions. The SVSO was accepted by 195, or 30%, of the eligible employees during the first quarter. As a result, we have recorded a charge to expense of $68 million ($53 million U.S. Domestic Package, $7 million International Package, and $8 million Supply Chain & Freight), to reflect the cash payout and the acceleration of stock compensation and certain retiree healthcare benefits under the SVSO program.
(2) First quarter net income and earnings per share amounts exclude the after-tax impact of the charges described in (1), which total $184 million.
 
 
Amounts are subject to reclassification.
5


