FILE:UPS/UPS-8K-20100303163535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
     THIS CERTIFIES THAT xxxxxxx has been granted a target award of x,xxx Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs"). Each RSU has a value that equals the value of one share of the class A common stock of UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"). A RSU is sometimes referred to as a "long-term incentive performance award" or "LTIP."
     1. . This target award is granted pursuant to the United Parcel Service, Inc. 2009 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), and is subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in the Plan document, as the same may be amended from time to time. All of the terms and provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by reference. Terms not defined in this award agreement are defined in the Plan.
Plan
     2. .
Measurement Tranches
          (a) . Ninety percent (90%) of your target award is divided into 3 substantially equal annual performance measurement tranches (one for each calendar year during the 3-year award cycle running from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012 (the "LTIP cycle")) and ten percent (10%) of your target award is based on satisfaction of an earnings per share target for calendar year 2012 (the "earnings measurement tranche"):
General Rule
          (b) . The number of RSUs to be credited to your account for each performance measurement tranche will be determined after the end of the relevant calendar year based on the achievement of specific performance targets established for that year and the applicable performance target matrix (discussed below). The performance criteria for 2010 - - 2012 are growth in consolidated revenue (i.e., total company revenue as reported in the Company's quarterly and annual financial statements) and consolidated operating return on invested capital. The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the Company's results during the LTIP cycle to exclude the effects of certain transactions and accounting changes for purposes of determining achievement of the performance targets.
Performance Measurement Tranches
     For each RSU performance measurement tranche, the Committee will develop a performance target matrix that will provide for 100% payment of the target RSUs for the tranche upon 100% achievement of the performance targets for the year. The performance target matrix also may provide for payment of a percentage less than or more than 100% of the target RSUs for the tranche based on achievement of performance targets at a percentage less than or more than, respectively, 100%. Your performance target matrix for 2010 is attached as . Performance target matrices for 2011 and
Exhibit A
 
2012 will be provided to you in the first quarter of the applicable year. After the end of each year, the Committee will certify the extent to which the performance targets have been achieved and the resulting RSUs to be credited to your account. Once the payment percentage for a particular tranche has been applied to a performance measurement tranche, the number of RSUs in that tranche is fixed. After the number of RSUs in a performance measurement tranche becomes fixed, the RSUs in that tranche will be credited to your RSU account.
          (c) . The earnings per share target for calendar year 2012 is set forth on the attached . You will receive this portion of your award only if the Company meets the earnings per share target for the 2012 calendar year and you are employed in an eligible job classification by the Company or a Subsidiary on January 31, 2013If the earnings per share target is not met or you are not employed in an eligible job classification with the Company or a Subsidiary on January 31, 2013, you will not receive this portion of your award. For this purpose, earnings per share is as reported in the Form 10-K filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the year ending December 31, 2012 as adjusted in the Committee's discretion to exclude the effects of certain transactions and accounting changes for purposes of determining achievement of the earnings per share target. After the Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2012 is filed, the Committee will certify if the earnings per share target has been met and the RSUs credited to your account, if any, for the earnings per share measurement tranche.
Earnings Per Share Measurement Tranche
Exhibit A
.
,
     3. . A bookkeeping account will be maintained to keep track of the RSUs and any dividend equivalents attributable to your RSUs as described below.
Bookkeeping Account
     4. . The RSUs credited to your account that are attributable to a particular performance measurement tranche will be credited quarterly with dividend equivalent units for dividends paid on a share of the Company's class A common stock, by
Dividend Equivalents
Each dividend equivalent unit has a value equal to one share of the Company's class A common stock. The Committee will authorize the crediting of the dividend equivalent units for each quarter. Dividend equivalent units will vest at the same time as the underlying RSU tranche (discussed below).
     5. .
Vesting
          (a) . The RSUs and dividend equivalent units credited to your account during the LTIP cycle will vest on January 31, 2013; provided that you are employed by the Company or a Subsidiary on that date. The benefit payable to you will be based entirely on the number of vested RSUs and dividend equivalent units credited to your account at the time the award becomes payable, generally, on March 15, 2013 following the completion of the LTIP cycle.
General Rule
          (b) . If you are demoted before January 31, 2013 to a position that would have been ineligible to receive a LTIP award under the 2010 LTIP program, you will forfeit any right to RSUs for the performance measurement tranche for the year in which your demotion occurs and any performance measurement tranche commencing after your demotion. You also will forfeit any right to RSUs for the earnings measurement tranche. You will retain any RSUs and dividend equivalent units credited to your account prior to your demotion, subject to satisfaction of the vesting requirements of Section 5(a) or (c) of this award agreement.
Demotion
          (c) . If your employment terminates by reason of your death, disability or retirement (as defined in the Plan) before January 31, 2013, you immediately will
Death, Disability or Retirement
 
vest in any RSUs and dividend equivalent units for a performance measurement tranche that was completed prior to your termination. You will forfeit any right to RSUs for the performance measurement tranche for the year in which your termination occurs and any performance measurement tranche commencing after your termination. You also will forfeit any right to RSUs for the earnings measurement tranche. Further, if you terminate employment before January 31, 2012 other than by reason of death, disability or retirement, you will forfeit this award in its entirety.
     6. . A number of shares of the Company's class A common stock equal to the number of vested RSUs and dividend equivalent units credited to your account (less shares withheld to pay taxes) will be transferred to you on March 15, 2013, except that if your employment terminates by reason of your death, the shares will be transferred to your estate no later than 90 days following the notification of your death.
Shares
     7. . This award and your RSUs and dividend equivalent units are not transferable except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferable
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, UNITED PARCEL SERVICE, INC. has caused this Restricted Stock Unit Award to be issued as of March 1, 2010.
 
Applicable to 3-Year Awards Granted in 2008, 2009, and 2010


