FILE:UPS/UPS-8K-20120323112641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introductory Note
On March 19, 2012, United Parcel Service, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it had reached an agreement with TNT Express N.V. ("TNT Express") on a recommended all-cash public offer for each of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of TNT Express (the "Offer"). The Offer values the issued and outstanding share capital of TNT Express at 5.16 billion ($6.77 billion assuming a foreign exchange rate $1.3116/1). The Company intends to finance the Offer by utilizing existing cash and through new debt arrangements. The Company will make a timely certain funds announcement as required by Section 7 Paragraph 4 of the Dutch Decree on Public Takeover Bids.
 
Merger Protocol
On March 19, 2012, the Company and TNT Express entered into a Merger Protocol agreement (the "Merger Protocol") providing for the merger with TNT Express by the Company or a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company by way of the Offer. Under the terms of the Merger Protocol, the Company has agreed to make, declare unconditional and settle the Offer on the terms and subject to the conditions set out in the Merger Protocol, at a price of 9.50 in cash per ordinary share or American Depositary Receipt of TNT Express. The Merger Protocol provides that, apart from the financial year 2011 final dividend of 0.004 per share, the offer price will be decreased by the full amount of any dividend or distribution declared or made by TNT Express in respect of its ordinary shares prior to settlement of the Offer.
The Executive and Supervisory Boards of TNT Express have unanimously approved TNT Express' entry into the Merger Protocol and, subject to certain exceptions and conditions, TNT Express has agreed that neither the Executive nor the Supervisory Board will revoke or materially modify, amend or qualify its recommendation that shareholders of TNT Express accept the Offer.
Under the terms of the Merger Protocol, commencement of the Offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including: (i) no material adverse effect having occurred, (ii) no breach of the Merger Protocol having occurred, (iii) approval of the offer memorandum by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets ("AFM"), (iv) no revocation of the recommendation by TNT Express' Executive Board or Supervisory Board, (v) Stichting Continuteit TNT Express (which is a foundation that has been granted a call right to acquire preference shares of TNT Express) not having exercised its call option right to have protective preference shares issued to it, (vi) no notification having been received from the AFM that preparations of the Offer are in breach of Dutch offer rules and (vii) no order, stay, judgment or decree having been issued prohibiting the Offer. In addition, the Offer requires obtaining a number of approvals, clearances and other forms of consent or non-objection and other actions with respect to various works counsels, trade unions and other employee representatives.
The Merger Protocol further provides that consummation of the Offer will be subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including: (i) a minimum acceptance of 80% of the TNT Express ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis, (ii) certain competition clearances for the Offer having been obtained, (iii) no material adverse effect having occurred, (iv) no breach of the Merger Protocol having occurred, (v) no revocation of the recommendations by TNT Express' Executive Board or Supervisory Board, (vi) Stichting Continuteit TNT Express not having exercised its call option right to have protective preference shares issued to it and having agreed to terminate its call option subject to the Offer being declared unconditional, (vii) no notification having been received from the AFM that preparations of the Offer are in breach of Dutch offer rules and (viii) no order, stay judgment or decree having been issued prohibiting the Offer. As soon as possible after completion of the Offer, the parties agree that the Company or its affiliates will seek to acquire all shares not then owned by it.
The Merger Protocol contains certain termination rights for the Company and TNT Express. Upon termination of the Merger Protocol (i) by the Company, in the event of certain breaches by TNT Express or (ii) by either the Company or TNT Express, in the event that a bona fide third-party offeror makes an offer which is binding upon such party, exceeds the Offer price by at least 8% and is considered by the Executive and Supervisory
Boards of TNT Express to be substantially more beneficial to TNT Express, TNT Express will pay the Company a 50 million termination fee. The Merger Protocol also provides that the Company will be required to pay TNT Express a reverse termination fee of 200 million in the event of termination of the Merger Protocol due to the Company's failure to consummate the Offer, certain breaches by the Company, or the failure to obtain certain regulatory approvals. In addition, subject to certain limitations, either party may terminate the Merger Protocol if the Offer is not consummated by February 28, 2013.
The foregoing description of the Merger Protocol is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Protocol, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 2.1.
Irrevocable
On March 18, 2012, the Company obtained an irrevocable undertaking (the "Irrevocable") from PostNL N.V., which holds, as of the date of the Irrevocable, approximately 29.8% of TNT Express' outstanding ordinary shares. The Irrevocable provides, among other things, that subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, PostNL N.V. will accept the Offer in respect of all of the ordinary shares of TNT Express that it holds or may acquire, except that after September 19, 2012, PostNL N.V. may sell, transfer or encumber, and is not obligated to accept the Offer to the extent that it has sold, transferred or encumbered, up to 54,320,242 ordinary shares of TNT Express (representing approximately 10% of TNT Express' outstanding ordinary shares). The Irrevocable will terminate under certain circumstances, including in the event the Merger Protocol is terminated, the Executive or Supervisory Board of TNT Express withdraw or modify their recommendation of the Offer, or a competing offer (as defined in the Merger Protocol) has been made for TNT Express and not matched by the Company.
The foregoing description of the Irrevocable is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Irrevocable, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
Further Information
The offer memorandum will contain details of the Offer and for further information explicit reference is made to the offer memorandum, which is expected to be published during Q2 2012. TNT Express' shareholders are advised to review the offer memorandum in detail and to seek independent advice where appropriate in order to reach a reasoned judgment in respect of the content of the offer memorandum and the Offer itself.
This disclosure is for information purposes only and does not constitute an offer or an invitation to acquire or dispose of any securities or investment advice or an inducement to enter into investment activity. This disclosure does not constitute an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation of an offer to buy or acquire the securities of the Company or TNT Express in any jurisdiction.
The distribution of this information may, in some countries, be restricted by law or regulation. Accordingly, persons who come into possession of this document should inform themselves of and observe these restrictions. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company disclaims any responsibility or liability for the violation of any such restrictions by any person. Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities laws of that jurisdiction. Neither the Company, nor TNT Express, nor any of their advisors assumes any responsibility for any violation by any person of any of these restrictions. Any TNT Express shareholder who is in any doubt as to his position should consult an appropriate professional advisor without delay. This disclosure is not to be published or distributed in or to Australia, Canada or Japan.
 
On March 19, 2012, the Company and TNT Express issued a joint press release announcing the Offer, the text of which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities under that section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in those filings.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
MERGER PROTOCOL
:
B
ETWEEN
 
 
(the parties above together the and each also a ).
Parties
Party
:
W
HEREAS
(A) TNT is listed on the stock exchange of Euronext Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext, the regulated market of Euronext N.V. ().
Euronext Amsterdam
(B) TNT and its Affiliates (together the ) are engaged in the business of package delivery services.
TNT Group
(C) UPS is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, operated by NYSE Euronext () and is, together with its Affiliates, also engaged in the business of package delivery services.
NYSE
(D) UPS intends to merge with TNT by way of a recommended public offer () to be made by UPS or a wholly-owned subsidiary of UPS in respect of all ordinary shares of TNT as further described in this Merger Protocol (the and, together with the transactions contemplated in connection therewith, the ).
openbaar bod
Offer
Merger
(E) On 11 January 2012, UPS and TNT entered into a confidentiality agreement (the ).
Confidentiality Agreement
(F) UPS and its advisors have performed a high level due diligence investigation into certain legal, financial, commercial, regulatory, tax and pension aspects of the TNT Group and its businesses based on the information included in the data room prepared by TNT, follow-up questions and other information provided to UPS or its advisors by or on behalf of TNT (the ).
Pre-Signing Due Diligence
(G) At the date of this Merger Protocol, the authorised share capital of TNT amounts to EUR 120,000,000, divided into 750,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.08 each and 750,000,000 preference shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.08 each.
(H) On 15 March 2012, there were approximately 10,453,831 American Depositary Receipts () outstanding, each representing one ordinary share of TNT, and together representing approximately 1.92% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of TNT.
ADRs
(I) At the date of this Merger Protocol, the issued share capital of TNT amounts to EUR 43,456,193,60, divided into 543,202,420 ordinary shares (including all ordinary shares represented by the ADRs), such shares, together with any ordinary shares that may be issued by TNT pursuant to the exercise of share options prior to the Closing Date, the ).
Shares
(J) At the date of this Merger Protocol, TNT does not hold any Shares.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
(K) At the date of this Merger Protocol, UPS does not hold any Shares.
(L) TNT has entered into an agreement with Stichting Continuteit TNT Express (the ) dated 31 May 2011 (the ), pursuant to which the Foundation has been granted a call option to acquire from TNT such number of preference shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.08 each (the ) as is equal to the total number of Shares minus one and minus any Shares or Protective Preference Shares already issued to the Foundation (the ).
Foundation
Foundation Option Agreement
Protective Preference Shares
Call Option
(M) UPS and TNT have discussed their intentions in relation to the Merger and UPS has informed TNT of its intentions regarding the possible steps to be taken after declaring the Offer unconditional () as further set out in this Merger Protocol.
gestanddoening
(N) The executive board () of TNT (the ) and the supervisory board () of TNT (the ) (the ) have in connection with the Offer received fairness opinions to the effect that, as of the date of this Merger Protocol, the Offer Price (as defined below) is fair to the holders of Shares from a financial point of view, in form and substance satisfactory to the Boards and in support of their recommendation of the Offer.
raad van bestuur
Executive Board
raad van commissarissen
Supervisory Board
Boards
(O) The Boards have approved the terms of this Merger Protocol and intend to recommend the Offer for acceptance by the holders of Shares, subject to the terms and conditions of this Merger Protocol.
(P) On 7 April 2011, TNT and TNT N.V. (currently named PostNL N.V.) entered into a relationship agreement (the ). The Relationship Agreement provides, , for the terms and conditions on lock-up and the restrictions on transfer of Shares held by PostNL N.V. in the event of a third party making a takeover bid for TNT. As at the date hereof, the Parties assume that PostNL N.V. holds approximately 29.8% of the Shares.
Relationship Agreement
inter alia
(Q) On 18 March 2012, UPS obtained an irrevocable undertaking from PostNL N.V. to tender all of the Shares held by it under the Offer, if and when made (the ).
Irrevocable
(R) The Parties have discussed and agreed the contents and timing of (i) public announcement of the Merger and (ii) communications with the relevant authorities and employee representatives. The notification and consultation procedure with respect to the Offer pursuant to the (the Dutch code in respect of informing and consulting of trade unions), the Dutch Works Council Act (; the ) and any other similar laws and regulations of any jurisdiction other than The Netherlands have been initiated or will be initiated immediately after execution of this Merger Protocol.
SER Fusiegedragsregels 2000
Wet op de Ondernemingsraden
WOR
(S) The Parties wish to lay down their respective rights and obligations with respect to the Offer and the Merger in this Merger Protocol.
H :
EREBY
AGREE
AS
FOLLOWS
 
1.1 Capitalised words and expressions used in this Merger Protocol, including those used in the preamble to this Merger Protocol, shall have the meaning ascribed to such words and expressions in Schedule 1.
1.2 References in this Merger Protocol to:
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
1.3 The Schedules comprise schedules to this Merger Protocol and shall have the same force and effect as if set out in the body of this Merger Protocol and any reference to this Merger Protocol shall include the Schedules.
1.4 The headings in this Merger Protocol are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect its interpretation.
 
Preparations of the Offer
2.1 UPS undertakes to TNT to prepare and make, or designate a wholly-owned subsidiary to make (), declare unconditional () and settle () the Offer on the terms and subject to the conditions set out in this Merger Protocol.
uitbrengen
gestand doen
betalen en levering aanvaarden
2.2 The Parties shall use their respective best efforts to ensure that the Offer will be completed as soon as possible following the date of this Merger Protocol, subject to the terms and conditions of this Merger Protocol.
2.3 The Parties shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including without limitation, the applicable provisions of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (; the ), the Decree on Public Takeovers (; the ), the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Wft and the Decree, the policy guidelines and instructions of the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (; the ), the WOR, the , the rules and regulations of Euronext Amsterdam and, in so far as applicable, NYSE, the Dutch Civil Code () (the ), the relevant securities and employee consultation rules and regulations in other applicable jurisdictions including, without limitation, the applicable US securities laws, and the relevant Antitrust Laws applicable to the Offer (collectively, the ).
Wet op het Financieel Toezicht
Wft
Besluit Openbare Biedingen
Decree
Stichting Autoriteit Financile Markten
AFM
SER Fusiegedragsregels 2000
Burgerlijk Wetboek
DCC
Applicable Rules
Offer Price
2.4 Provided that this Merger Protocol is not terminated pursuant to clause 15 and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the Commencement Conditions and the Offer Conditions, the Offer shall commit UPS to acquire each Share validly tendered under the Offer and not withdrawn against payment of a cash consideration of EUR 9.50 (nine euro and fifty cents) (and, in respect of ADRs, the U.S. Dollar equivalent of EUR 9.50 per ADR, calculated by using the spot market exchange rate for the U.S. Dollar against the euro on the date on which funds are received by the paying agent to pay for ADRs upon completion of the Offer) (the ), which price includes, for the avoidance of doubt, any (interim) dividends and other distributions that may be declared or paid in the period between the date of this Merger Protocol and completion of the Offer, except for a financial year 2011 final dividend payment not exceeding EUR 0.004 per Share.
Offer Price
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
2.5 If TNT were to declare or pay any (interim) dividend or other distribution as referred to in Schedule 4, paragraph (b) in the period between the date of this Merger Protocol and the Settlement Date (except for a financial year 2011 final dividend payment not exceeding EUR 0.004 per Share), then the Offer Price will be decreased by the full amount of any such dividend payment or other distribution declared or made by TNT in respect of each Share (before any applicable withholding tax).
Joint Announcement
2.6 The execution of this Merger Protocol will be announced immediately following its execution and in any event prior to the opening of the first trading day on Euronext Amsterdam following the execution of this Merger Protocol by way of a press release issued jointly by UPS and TNT (the ). The AFM and Euronext Amsterdam will be provided with a copy of the Joint Announcement immediately upon its release. The relevant (international) press-agents, the Socio-Economic Council (), the relevant Dutch trade unions, the European works council and the Works Council will also receive a copy. A copy of the Joint Announcement is attached hereto as Schedule 2.
Joint Announcement
Sociaal-Economische Raad
Commencement Date
2.7 UPS shall make the Offer no later than on the earlier of:
 
 
 
subject in all cases to all Commencement Conditions being satisfied or waived by UPS and/or TNT, as the case may be, in accordance with this Merger Protocol (the date on which the Offer is made, the ).
Commencement Date
Offer Period
2.8 UPS may, in its sole discretion, determine the duration of the acceptance period () of the Offer (the ), provided that the initial Offer Period shall be no less than eight (8) weeks and no longer than ten (10) weeks (the last day of the Offer Period, the ).
aanmeldingstermijn
Offer Period
Closing Date
2.9 Immediately prior to the expiration of the Offer Period, TNT shall provide a written confirmation to UPS that, to the best knowledge of the members of the Executive Board, after having made reasonable enquiries, the Offer Conditions set forth in clause 4.3(d) (no breach by TNT) and clause 4.3(h) (no breach of public offer regulations) have been satisfied (or not, in which case reasonable details as to the non-satisfaction shall be included in the written confirmation) as of that time. Immediately prior to the expiration of the Offer Period, UPS shall provide a written confirmation to TNT that, to the best knowledge of the members of its executive board, after having made reasonable enquiries, the Offer Conditions set forth in clause 4.3(e) (no breach by UPS) and clause 4.3(h) (no breach of public offer regulations) have been satisfied (or not, in which case reasonable details as to the non-satisfaction shall be included in the written confirmation) as of that time.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
2.10 If any Offer Condition is not satisfied or waived on the initial Closing Date, UPS may, at its sole discretion, extend the initial Offer Period once, provided that:
 
 
Any request to the AFM for an exemption to extend the Offer Period more than once, other than pursuant to clause 2.10(b), shall require the prior written consent of TNT, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
If, at any point in time prior to the Long Stop Date (i) the AFM does not grant an exemption to extend the Offer Period as a consequence of which the Offer Period has lapsed without the Offer having been declared unconditional () and (ii) the Offer Condition relating to competition clearance set out in clause 4.3(b) is not yet satisfied or waived, but no decision has yet been made or deemed to have been made by the European Commission in respect of Phase II Competition Clearance, UPS shall promptly launch a new public offer on the same terms and conditions as the Offer (and such new offer will then be deemed to be the "Offer" for purposes of this Agreement).
gestand gedaan
In case of one or more extensions of the Offer Period, all references to the Closing Date shall, unless the context requires otherwise, be deemed to refer to the latest date and time to which the Offer Period has been so extended.
2.11 If the Offer Conditions have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Merger Protocol, UPS shall publicly declare the Offer unconditional no later than the third (3
rd
) Business Day after the Closing Date (the ). Settlement is expected to occur on the fifth (5
Unconditional Date
th
) Business Day after the Unconditional Date (the ).
Settlement Date
2.12 In the event that UPS declares the Offer unconditional (), UPS shall also publicly announce a post acceptance period () of no more than two (2) weeks (the ) and accept, against payment of the Offer Price, each Share that is validly tendered and not withdrawn within such period.
gestand doet
na-aanmeldingstermijn
Post Closing Acceptance Period
2.13 Nothing is this clause 2 shall limit the rights of UPS under article 15 paragraph 5 of the Decree.
Offer Memorandum and Position Statement
2.14 On the Commencement Date, UPS shall make the offer memorandum () (together with all amendments and supplements thereto, the ) generally available in The Netherlands and in those other jurisdictions in which the Parties agree or are obliged pursuant to the Applicable Rules to make the Offer. UPS and TNT shall jointly announce the availability of the Offer Memorandum and shall disseminate the Offer Memorandum in the jurisdictions where the Offer is made in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations in such jurisdictions.
biedingsbericht
Offer Memorandum
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
2.15 The Offer Memorandum (and all transactions contemplated thereby) shall comply as to form and substance in all respects with the Applicable Rules, may include such additional information as the Parties reasonably agree should be included and shall otherwise be consistent with commercial practice. The Offer Memorandum shall be drafted by UPS. TNT shall be given sufficient opportunity to review, comment upon and, except for sections solely relating to,and/or being under the responsibility of, UPS, approve the Offer Memorandum (which approval shall not be unreasonably delayed or withheld). TNT, acting reasonably, undertakes to timely provide all such information and data relating to TNT and the TNT Group as is reasonably required to be included in the Offer Memorandum. UPS and TNT will timely submit the Offer Memorandum to the AFM for approval.
2.16 TNT will prepare the position statement pursuant to article 18 of the Decree (the ), which, subject to the terms of this Merger Protocol, shall set forth the Recommendation referred to in clause 3.1(b) and otherwise be consistent with this Merger Protocol and the Offer Document, shall comply as to form and substance in all respects with the Applicable Rules and may include such additional information as TNT reasonably determines should be included therein. Subject to the terms of this Merger Protocol, TNT will issue the Position Statement to holders of Shares as and to the extent required by the Applicable Rules, it being agreed that, to the extent permissible under the Applicable Rules, issuance of the Position Statement will not take place until consultations with the Works Council have been completed in accordance with the WOR.
Position Statement
2.17 Subject to the terms of this Merger Protocol, both the Offer Memorandum and the Position Statement shall contain a statement of the Boards that they unanimously support and recommend the Offer to the shareholders of TNT. The Fairness Opinions referred to in clause 3.2 will be included in the Position Statement.
2.18 Each Party shall provide all information as may reasonably be required by the other Party to make the Offer Memorandum and the Position Statement true, accurate and complete. Each Party shall be responsible for the information provided by it.
Timetable
2.19 Subject to the terms and conditions of this Merger Protocol and to the extent reasonably possible, the Parties shall complete the Offer in accordance with the timetable applicable to the Offer pursuant to the provisions of the Decree.
Consultation and cooperation
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
3.1 On the basis that the Offer, the Merger and the related actions as contemplated in this Merger Protocol are in the best interest of TNT and its stakeholders (including its shareholders), TNT confirms that:
 
 
 
 
3.2 The Boards have obtained, , the opinions, addressed to the Boards by Goldman Sachs International and to the Supervisory Board by Lazard B.V., in each case, to the effect that, as of the date of this Merger Protocol, the Offer Price is fair to the holders of Shares from a financial point of view (such opinions, the ).
inter alia
Fairness Opinions
 
Commencement Conditions
4.1 The obligation of UPS to make the Offer () shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver, as the case may be, in accordance with this Merger Protocol, of the conditions set forth in this clause 4.1 (the ):
het bod uitbrengen
Commencement Conditions
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
Waiver
4.2 The Commencement Conditions in clauses 4.1(a), 4.1(b), 4.1(e) and 4.1(f) are for the benefit of UPS and may be waived (either in whole or in part) by UPS at any time, in any such case by written notice to TNT.
The Commencement Condition set out in clause 4.1(c) is for the sole benefit of TNT and may be waived (either in whole or in part) by TNT at any time by written notice to UPS.
Commencement Conditions 4.1(d), 4.1(g) and 4.1(h) cannot be waived.
No Party may invoke any of the Commencement Conditions if the non-satisfaction of such condition(s) is caused by a breach of that Party of any of its obligations under this Merger Protocol.
Offer Conditions
4.3 The obligation of UPS to declare the Offer unconditional () shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver by UPS and/or TNT, as the case may be, in accordance with this Merger Protocol, of the conditions set forth in this clause 4.3 (the ):
het bod gestand doen
Offer Conditions
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
Waiver
4.4 The Offer Conditions set out in clauses 4.3(a), 4.3(b), 4.3(c), 4.3(d), 4.3(f) and 4.3(g) are for the sole benefit of UPS and may be waived (either in whole or in part) by UPS at any time by written notice to TNT.
The Offer Condition set out in clause 4.3(e) is for the sole benefit of TNT and may be waived (either in whole or in part) by TNT at any time by written notice to UPS.
The Offer Conditions set forth in clauses 4.3(h) and 4.3(i) cannot be waived.
Announcement of non/satisfaction or waiver
4.5 In accordance with the Merger Rules, if it is ascertained by UPS that an Offer Condition is not, or is incapable of being, satisfied and the relevant Offer Condition is not waived, UPS shall publicly announce this.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
Competition Clearance
4.6 UPS shall have the primary responsibility, and take all steps required in consultation with TNT and with the assistance of its advisors, to make all necessary filings to obtain the EU Competition Clearance and the Other Key Competition Clearances as soon as permitted and practicably feasible under the relevant competition laws and shall use its best efforts to obtain the approvals of the relevant competition authorities as soon as practicable. In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, UPS shall:
 
 
 
If a competition approval or statement of no objection of a Regulatory Authority in respect of the Offer is given subject to conditions or obligations (), then those Commitments being reasonably satisfactory to UPS, acting reasonably, shall be accepted.
Commitments
This clause 4.6 shall apply equally to the provision of Commitments to the competent authorities of a Member State if the European Commission makes a referral in whole or in part under Article 9 of the EC Merger Regulation to a competent authority of one or more Member States whose laws prohibit the parties from completing the consummation of the Offer before clearance is obtained under such national merger control.
UPS shall:
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
Best Efforts
4.7 Without prejudice to clauses 4.5 and 4.6, UPS and TNT shall consult with each other and each of UPS and TNT undertakes to use its best efforts to procure the fulfilment of the Commencement Conditions and the Offer Conditions as soon as reasonably practicable. If at any time a Party becomes aware of a fact or circumstance that might prevent a Commencement Condition or an Offer Condition from being satisfied, it shall immediately inform the other Party in writing. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each of the Parties shall make all applications and notifications required by the Commencement Conditions and the Offer Conditions and shall use its best efforts to procure that all such information as is requested by the relevant authorities in connection with any such applications and notifications is provided as promptly as reasonably practicable.
Binding advice in relation to Material Adverse Effect
4.8 If UPS considers that the Commencement Condition set out in clause 4.1(a) or the Offer Condition set out in clause 4.3(c), as the case may be, has not been satisfied, UPS may give written notice thereof to TNT, together with its explanations and, where practicable, supported by documentation.
4.9 If, following such notice, TNT disagrees with UPS's position, TNT shall respond within three (3) Business Days in writing stating, in detail and supported by documents where possible, that it disagrees with such Commencement Condition or such Offer Condition, as the case may be, not having been satisfied (a ).
Notice of Disagreement
4.10 If TNT has sent a Notice of Disagreement to UPS in accordance with clause 4.9, UPS shall reply within three (3) Business Days in writing thereto responding to the arguments raised by TNT in its Notice of Disagreement (a ).
Counter-Notice of Disagreement
4.11 Either Party shall be entitled upon lapse of three (3) Business Days from the Counter-Notice of Disagreement to submit the dispute in writing, with a copy to the other Party, to a binding advisor () who shall settle the matter by way of binding advice () () under articles 7:900 et seq. of the DCC and in accordance with the terms as set out in Schedule 5.
Binding Advisor
bindend advies
Binding Advice
4.12 The Binding Advisor shall be the President of the Enterprise Chamber () of the Court of Appeals of Amsterdam. If such agreed Binding Advisor is not able (for whatever reason) to provide the Binding Advice within ten (10) Business Days, each Party shall be entitled to request the President of the District Court of Amsterdam to appoint another independent lawyer as a Binding Advisor within two (2) Business Days. The Binding Advisor shall decide as binding advisor, not as arbitrator. The Parties shall fully cooperate with the Binding Advisor and shall provide him promptly with all information that he reasonably requires. The Binding Advice shall be rendered within ten (10) Business Days after the dispute having been referred to the Binding Advisor or such shorter period as the Parties may agree. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, if the Binding Advice relates to an Offer Condition, the Binding Advice shall be rendered no later than noon CET on the Business Day before the Unconditional Date. The Binding Advice shall be final and binding upon the Parties and each of the Parties shall fully comply with the Binding Advice and the content thereof.
Ondernemingskamer
Employee Clearances
4.13 The Offer will require the obtaining of a number of approvals, clearances and other forms of consent or non-objection and the seeking and/or obtaining of a number of (formal or informal) advices, opinions or points of view from employee representatives, including those of the central works council of TNT Nederland B.V. (previously named TNT Head Office B.V.) (the ), the European works council and trade unions (together: the ).
Works Council
Employee Clearances
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
4.14 Each Party shall use its best efforts to ensure that the Employee Clearances are obtained as soon as possible following the date of this Merger Protocol. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, the Parties agree that TNT shall have the primary responsibility for, and take all steps necessary, in consultation with UPS and its advisors, as soon as practicably possible following the date of this Merger Protocol, to file for and obtain all Employee Clearances. TNT agrees that it shall keep UPS and its advisors informed on the preparation of the filings necessary to obtain the Employee Clearances. In the context of obtaining Employee Clearances in connection with the Offer, TNT shall not send any letter or other document, nor make any submission and/or commitment, to the relevant employee representatives without UPS's prior consent, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
4.15 Without limiting the generality of clause 4.14, TNT will take all action reasonably necessary to initiate, conduct and finalise the consultations with the Works Council and obtain the advice from the Works Council in respect of the Offer prior to the Commencement Date, resolving such outstanding issues in connection therewith as may reasonably be required to accept the advice of the Works Council, in a manner satisfactory to TNT and UPS, acting reasonably. TNT and UPS will consult with each other closely with a view to seeking and obtaining the Works Council's advice and TNT will keep UPS informed on a continuing basis on all material correspondence and consultations in respect thereof. TNT will give (representatives of) UPS the opportunity to give a presentation to the Works Council about UPS, its general strategy and its general views on the position of employees within the UPS group, and UPS will attend meetings with (representatives of) the Works Council if requested by the Works Council.
4.16 The Parties acknowledge that, as from the date of this Merger Protocol until the date on which the consultations with the Works Council will have been completed in accordance with the WOR, the obligations of TNT and the Boards in relation to the Recommendation as set out in this Merger Protocol and all other obligations of TNT in connection with the Offer and the Merger as set out in this Merger Protocol are of a conditional nature () only and in all respects subject to proper completion of the Works Council consultation process. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if consultations with the Works Council have not yet been completed in accordance with the WOR by the Commencement Date, the Offer Document will not contain the Recommendation, but will only set out the conditional intention of the Boards to recommend the Offer to TNT's shareholders for acceptance.
voorwaardelijk karakter
 
5.1 The Parties intend to integrate and align their respective businesses to fully benefit from the global reach, scale and resources of the Combined Group, in order to provide a compelling growth platform and enhance the Parties' capabilities to service customers in a reliable and cost-efficient way throughout the world.
5.2 UPS will finance the Offer through existing cash reserves and current and new debt arrangements and will timely make a certain funds announcement as required by article 7 paragraph 4 of the Decree.
 
Delisting, squeeze-out proceedings and other post-closing measures
6.1 As soon as possible after completion of the Offer, the Parties will seek to:
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
For as long as TNT remains listed on Euronext Amsterdam, it shall continue to comply with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (except for (i) current deviations from the aforementioned code in accordance with the "explain" requirement in respect of such deviations, (ii) deviations from the aforementioned code that find their basis in this Merger Protocol) and (iii) deviations as a result of resolutions adopted by TNT's general meeting of shareholders scheduled for 11 April 2012).
6.2 If, following the Settlement Date, UPS and its Affiliates, alone or together with TNT, hold at least 95% of the Shares, UPS will commence a compulsory acquisition procedure () in accordance with article 2:92a or 2:201a of the DCC or the takeover buy-out procedure in accordance with article 2:359c of the DCC to buy out the holders of Shares that have not tendered their Shares under the Offer. TNT shall provide UPS with any assistance as may reasonably be required, including, if needed, joining such proceedings as co-claimant.
uitkoopprocedure
6.3 Without prejudice to clauses 6.1 and 6.2, UPS shall be entitled to effect or cause to effect any other restructuring of the TNT Group for the purpose of achieving an optimal operational, legal, financial and/or fiscal structure in accordance with the Merger Rules and Dutch law in general, some of which may have the (side) effect of diluting the interest of any remaining minority shareholders of TNT (), including:
Post-Closing Measures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
6.4 In the implementation of any Post-Closing Measure, due consideration will be given to the interests of minority shareholders of TNT, if any. The members of the Supervisory Board shall be requested to form their independent view of the relevant matter, which shall be communicated to all shareholders of TNT. In this respect, the Supervisory Board members shall have the opportunity to engage, for the account of TNT, their own financial and legal advisors, if and to the extent they believe that the advice of such advisors is necessary to assist them in reviewing and assessing any matter that comes before the Supervisory Board.
6.5 If any proposed Post-Closing Measure could reasonably be expected to lead to dilution of remaining minority shareholders in TNT, other than pursuant to a compulsory acquisition procedure () in accordance with article 2:92a or 2:201a of the DCC or the takeover buy-out procedure in accordance with article 2:359c of the DCC, or could otherwise prejudice or negatively affect the value of the Shares held by minority shareholders, then the affirmative vote of at least one Independent Member shall be required prior to the implementation of any such Post-Closing Measure.
uitkoopprocedure
6.6 Subject to the Offer being declared unconditional, and for so long as the number of Shares which are held by UPS and its Affiliates represents less than 95% (ninety-five per cent) of the Shares on a fully diluted basis, UPS commits to use its commercially reasonable efforts to place and maintain a standard order on Euronext Amsterdam to purchase the remaining Shares held by minority shareholders against the Offer Price for a period of at least two (2) weeks following the expiry of the Post Closing Acceptance Period.
Composition of the Boards
6.7 UPS and TNT, including the Supervisory Board and all respective members thereof individually, will use their respective best efforts, including through their vote in favour of any (proposal for the) required amendment of the articles of association of TNT or any other constitutional document, their (vote in favour of any) nomination or appointment of any person to the Supervisory Board, their (vote in favour of any) resignation from the Supervisory Board, to ensure that the Supervisory Board will as soon as possible following the Settlement Date be composed as follows:
 
 
The composition of the Supervisory Board will be disclosed in the Offer Memorandum.
6.8 It is acknowledged and agreed that, as of the Settlement Date, in deviation of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, persons that are employed by, or otherwise related to, UPS can be
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
appointed to the Supervisory Board, provided that Shemaya Levy and Margot Scheltema, or, after their resignation, any replacement supervisory director that qualifies as independent supervisory director within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the ), shall continue to serve on the Supervisory Board until the third (3
Independent Members
rd
) anniversary of the Settlement Date. It is furthermore agreed that until the third (3
rd
) anniversary of the Settlement Date, one (1) Independent Member shall be a member of the Supervisory Board's audit committee and one (1) Independent Member shall be a member of the Supervisory Board's nomination committee.
6.9 In their position as members of the Supervisory Board, the Independent Members shall monitor and protect the interests of all TNT's stakeholders, including, in particular, the minority shareholders of TNT, if any.
6.10 Prior to the Commencement Date, UPS will, at its sole discretion, determine the composition of the Executive Board as of the Settlement Date, which will be disclosed in the Offer Memorandum.
6.11 Prior to the Commencement Date, UPS will discuss with the current members of the Executive Board their potential involvement in the management structure of the Combined Group.
6.12 Subject to the terms of this Merger Protocol, after the Settlement Date, UPS may, at its sole discretion, procure any subsequent appointments and dismissals of members of the Boards.
6.13 Any current member of the Executive Board that would not be part of the Executive Board as determined in accordance with clause 6.10, will resign from their position(s) as member(s) of the Executive Board as per the Settlement Date (or such later date as will be agreed with UPS) and each such member will confirm that he or she has no claim whatsoever against TNT in respect of loss of office or otherwise, other than his or her contractual redundancy/termination entitlement in the amount as disclosed in the TNT 2011 annual report. UPS shall allow TNT to pay such compensation to the respective members of the Executive Board. UPS will procure that each resigning member of the Executive Board will be fully released from his or her duties as per the date of resignation and that such member will be granted customary full and final discharge, provided that by the time of such resignation, no wilful misconduct, fraud or other criminal behaviour of such member has become apparent.
6.14 As from the Settlement Date, Antony Burgmans, Tex Gunning, Mary Harris and Roger King and such other members as may have been appointed to the Supervisory Board after the date of this Merger Protocol but prior to the EGM, will resign from their positions as members of the Supervisory Board and each such member will confirm that he has no claim whatsoever against TNT in respect of loss of office or otherwise, except with respect to compensation which would have been due had Settlement occurred on 31 December of the financial year in which Settlement occurred. UPS shall allow TNT to pay such compensation to the respective members of the Supervisory Board. UPS will procure that any resigning member of the Supervisory Board will be fully released from his duties as per the date of resignation and that such member will be granted customary full and final discharge, provided that by the time of such resignation, no wilful misconduct, fraud or other criminal behaviour of such member has become apparent.
6.15 TNT Nederland B.V. shall maintain the mitigated structure regime (). TNT Nederland B.V. shall continue to have a supervisory board consisting of three (3) supervisory directors, one of which will be appointed on the basis of a nomination made by the Works Council.
gemitigeerd structuurregime
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
7.1 The integration of the Combined Group will be the responsibility of the respective boards of UPS and TNT. In order to facilitate such integration, an integration committee will be established as of the Settlement Date consisting of four (4) members, two of which will be current senior executives of TNT (and if any such senior executive resigns, he will be replaced by another current senior executive of TNT) and the other two will be UPS representatives (the ). One of the UPS representatives shall be chairman of the Integration Committee and shall have a casting vote. The Integration Committee will determine an integration plan and submit it to the boards of UPS and TNT, monitor its implementation and do all things necessary to assist and optimise the integration of the Combined Group.
Integration Committee
7.2 Prior to the Settlement Date, UPS, in consultation with TNT, will determine the interim reporting structure for the TNT Group within the Combined Group. The final reporting structure will be described in the plan determined by the Integration Committee and approved by the boards of UPS and TNT.
7.3 UPS and TNT share a vision of building upon their respective strengths to become a global leader in the logistics industry. In furtherance of this shared vision, UPS confirms that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided that execution of TNT's 2012 business plan remains subject to clause 12.1;
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
Selection
8.1 The Parties agree that, following the Settlement Date, the nomination, selection and appointment of staff for any function within the Combined Group will, subject to Applicable Laws, be based on the "best person for the job" principle.
8.2 UPS shall ensure that persons currently holding management and staff positions within the TNT Group will be given fair opportunities to hold management and staff positions (including country, functional and central management) within the Combined Group.
8.3 UPS shall ensure that any employees that are selected for a position within the Combined Group shall receive proper training.
Redundancies
8.4 The Parties acknowledge that a combination of the businesses of UPS and TNT may have potential consequences for the employees of the Combined Group. The Parties shall assume responsibility for the related effects and costs thereof and shall honour the redundancy arrangements, social plans and applicable contractual arrangements already made or, subject to clause 12.1 and Schedule 4(o), to be made with the relevant employees. The Works Council and the European works council will be given the opportunity to exercise all of its rights pursuant to applicable law and the covenants entered into with them in relation to any redundancies and specific integration plans, including, if applicable, their right to provide advice. Furthermore, all other applicable employee information and consultation requirements in relation to any redundancies and specific integration plans will also be complied with at the relevant time.
8.5 To the extent required pursuant to existing or future social plans and/or redundancy plans, UPS will ensure that any vacancies within the Combined Group are first offered to employees of the Combined Group within the same geographical area who would have become redundant in connection with the Merger, subject to such employees having the relevant skills and experience. The Parties shall apply the fairness principle as to the impact of redundancies on TNT and UPS respectively and also agree that any further rationalisation will be free from discrimination on the basis of (current) employer, nationality, sex, race or creed.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
8.6 To the extent required pursuant to existing or future social plans and/or redundancy plans, UPS will ensure that outplacement services are offered to employees of the TNT Group that would become redundant in connection with the Merger.
Existing rights
8.7 After the Settlement Date and, if applicable, for the agreed duration of the respective arrangements, UPS will respect and continue the current TNT employee consultation structure (i.e. European works council, the Works Council and other existing employee representative bodies).
8.8 After the Settlement Date and for the agreed duration of the respective arrangements, UPS will also respect the existing employment terms of TNT, including any existing social plans, pension plans, profit sharing schemes, covenants and collective labour agreements (including the employee benefits included in the terms thereof), as well as the terms of the individual employment agreements between the TNT Group and its employees.
8.9 The Special Covenants set forth in clause 8 shall be fully disclosed in the Offer Document and in summary in the Joint Announcement.
 
9.1 Although UPS currently has no intention to deviate from the covenants, confirmations and commitments set out in clauses 6 (Governance), 7 (Integration and Organisation) and clauses 8.7 and 8.8 (Employees  Existing rights) (the ), the Parties agree that the Special Covenants between them will expire on the third (3
Special Covenants
rd
) anniversary of the Settlement Date.
9.2 Any material deviation by UPS from the Special Covenants before the third (3
rd
) anniversary of the Settlement Date, shall require the approval of the Supervisory Board, including the affirmative vote of at least one Independent Member.
9.3 The Special Covenants are made to TNT as well as, by way of irrevocable third party undertaking for no consideration (), to the two Independent Members, from time to time, it being understood that the Special Covenants may only be enforced against UPS by the Independent Members acting jointly. UPS hereby agrees in advance to the assignment of the benefit of this undertaking by an Independent Member to its successor.
onherroepelijk derdenbeding om niet
 
10.1 TNT represents and warrants to UPS that, at the date of this Merger Protocol, each of the statements in Schedule 3, Part I is true and accurate.
10.2 UPS represents and warrants to TNT that, at the date of this Merger Protocol, each of the statements in Schedule 3, Part II is true and accurate.
 
11.1 TNT shall:
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
Extraordinary shareholders meeting
11.2 On the Commencement Date, TNT undertakes to convene an extraordinary shareholders meeting of TNT to provide the shareholders of TNT with the necessary information concerning the Offer and, subject to the terms of this Merger Protocol, recommend the Offer to TNT's shareholders for acceptance, such meeting to take place at least 6 (six) Business Days before the Closing Date in accordance with article 18, paragraph 1 of the Decree (the ).
EGM
11.3 At the EGM, the shareholders shall be requested to, subject to the Offer being declared unconditional () and effective as per the Settlement Date:
gestanddoening
 
 
 
 
TNT shall reasonably do, and procure to be done, all those things necessary to ensure that the proposed resolutions set out above are passed. If, however, one or more of the resolutions is not approved at the EGM, TNT shall convene a new extraordinary meeting of shareholders of TNT, to take place after the Settlement Date, during which UPS, acting as the majority shareholder of TNT, shall exercise the voting rights attached to the Shares it holds in favour of the approval of the relevant resolutions.
Incentive Plans
11.4 At the date of this Merger Protocol, TNT has granted (i) 81,204 (cash-settled) one-off matching rights to directors, including Executive Board, and (senior) employees of the Group pursuant to the TNT Express One-off Investment/Matching Plan as adopted by the supervisory board of TNT N.V. on 7 April 2011 (the ) (the ) and (ii) 82,018 (cash-settled) matching rights, excluding Executive Board, to directors and (senior) employees of the Group pursuant to the TNT Express Bonus/Matching Plan as adopted by the supervisory board of TNT N.V. on 7 April 2011 (the ) (the and together with the One-off Matching Rights, the ).
OMPlan
One-off Matching Rights
BMPlan
Bonus Matching Rights
Employee Matching Rights
11.5 The Parties acknowledge that all rights in respect of the Incentive Plans will be respected, subject to the provisions set out below.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
11.6 The Supervisory Board shall, in accordance with Rule 10.1 of Part C of the Incentive Plans, allow all Employee Matching Rights outstanding under the Incentive Plans immediately prior to the Settlement Date to vest (as defined in the Incentive Plans) on the Settlement Date, subject to the relevant directors and (senior) employees tendering their Shares under the Offer. Such Employee Matching Rights shall be settled by payment of the cash equivalent of the Shares comprising the Employee Matching Rights based on the middle market quotation of a Share as derived from the Official Price List of Euronext Amsterdam. The number of Shares comprising the Employee Matching Rights is based on the Shares which are owned by the directors and (senior) employees pursuant to the Incentive Plans immediately prior to the Settlement Date. Rules 5.1.1 and 5.1.2 of Part C of the Incentive Plans shall only apply until Settlement.
11.7 For the avoidance of doubt and without prejudice to the foregoing, UPS shall pay the Offer Price for each Share that has been (i) granted to, or acquired by, directors and (senior) employees under the Incentive Plans and (ii) validly tendered under the Offer. TNT shall use its best efforts to ensure that, subject to the Offer being declared unconditional (), the directors and (senior) employees participating in the Incentive Plans shall tender their Shares obtained pursuant to the Incentive Plans under the Offer.
gestand gedaan
TNT Airline
11.8 The Parties shall endeavour to ensure that TNT's airline operations will be able to continue to operate despite the change in ownership and control over TNT to UPS. To that end, TNT will during the Interim Period, to the extent permitted by applicable law, procure that it and its Affiliates and their respective directors, employees and advisors will provide UPS with all information and cooperation reasonably required by UPS in order to have in place as per the Settlement Date, a legal, organisational and management structure with respect to TNT's airline operations that complies with all applicable laws, regulations, decrees, rules, arrangements and requirements, taking into account the acquisition of majority control over TNT by UPS. The Parties acknowledge and agree that such cooperation by TNT and its Affiliates may include, without limitation, corporate restructurings, transfer of assets and operations and filings and/or applications with regulators, provided that none of these shall have an irreversible detrimental effect on TNT, its Affiliates and their respective businesses. UPS hereby agrees to reimburse TNT for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses and costs incurred by TNT and its Affiliates pursuant to this clause 11.8.
Transaction Planning
11.9 Subject to any limitation pursuant to applicable Antitrust Laws, TNT will, upon reasonable written notice and during normal business hours, provide, and will procure that its Affiliates will provide, UPS and its advisors reasonable access to their directors, senior employees, premises, documents and advisors, and provide as soon as reasonably practicable UPS and its advisors with regular updates on financial results and operational developments material to TNT and the TNT Group and all such information and documentation as may reasonably be requested by UPS in connection with the Offer and the Merger. In particular, and subject to any limitation pursuant to applicable Antitrust Laws, TNT shall give UPS and its advisors access to such information and shall give such management and expert presentations as may reasonably be required by UPS (i) to determine the optimal acquisition and financing structure of the Merger, (ii) to complete any necessary filings and notifications, (iii) to determine the optimal legal, organisational and management structure with respect to TNT's airline operations following the Settlement Date, (iv) to allow its financing banks to obtain the necessary comfort and prepare the necessary financing and security documentation in connection with the Offer, (v) for integration planning purposes and (vi) otherwise to progress the Merger.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
Relationship Agreement
11.10 TNT hereby confirms to UPS to have waived any and all rights it may have vis--vis PostNL N.V. under clause 6.2 of the Relationship Agreement to the extent required for PostNL N.V. to be able to enter into the Irrevocable and to perform its obligations thereunder without breaching its obligations under such article 6.2 of the Relationship Agreement, subject to the condition subsequent () of termination of the Irrevocable and/or this Merger Protocol, in each case in accordance with their respective terms.
ontbindende voorwaarde
 
Conduct of TNT during Interim Period
12.1 Subject to applicable Antitrust Laws, as from the date of this Merger Protocol until the earlier of (i) the Settlement Date or (ii) the date on which this Merger Protocol is terminated in accordance with its terms (the ), TNT shall:
Interim Period
 
 
it being understood that with respect to the period between the Commencement Date and the earlier of (i) the Settlement Date and (ii) the date on which this Merger Protocol is terminated in accordance with its terms, UPS shall be deemed to have given its prior written consent with respect to the following:
 
 
 
Conduct of UPS during Interim Period
12.2 Subject to applicable Antitrust Laws, during the Interim Period, UPS shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to:
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
13.1 For the purposes of this Merger Protocol, the shall mean the period commencing on the date of this Merger Protocol and ending on the date of termination of this Merger Protocol, unless the Offer has been made, in which case the Exclusivity Period shall end on the earlier of the Settlement Date and the date of termination of this Merger Protocol.
Exclusivity Period
13.2 During the Exclusivity Period:
 
 
 
13.3 By their acceptance of the terms of this Merger Protocol, TNT and the members of the Boards confirm that at the date of signing of this Merger Protocol they are not in discussions and/or negotiations with any third party about any Alternative Proposal.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
13.4 Notwithstanding clauses 13.2(b), 13.2(c) and 17, TNT is permitted to engage in discussions or negotiations with, and provide information to, a third party that makes an unsolicited serious approach to TNT with the intention of making a Competing Offer (as defined below), provided that TNT shall promptly notify UPS thereof (and in any event within 48 (forty-eight) hours of receipt of the Alternative Proposal) and shall keep UPS immediately informed of any material developments in relation to such Alternative Proposal, including, but not limited to the fact whether it considers the Alternative Proposal to be a Potential Competing Offer.
 
14.1 A is a written proposal to make a (public) offer for all Shares or all or substantially all of the assets of the TNT Group or a merger of TNT, made by a party who, in the reasonable opinion of TNT (including the Supervisory Board), is a third party and which proposal in the reasonable opinion of TNT (including the Supervisory Board), having consulted its financial and legal advisors and considering, among others, level and character of consideration, certainty of financing, conditionality, integrity of the business and position of employees, could reasonably be expected to become a Competing Offer.
Potential Competing Offer
bona fide
14.2 In the event a Potential Competing Offer is made:
 
 
14.3 A Potential Competing Offer will be a if:
Competing Offer
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
14.4 If UPS has matched any Competing Offer in accordance with clause 14.5, the consideration per Share of any other, consecutive or amended offer made by any third party for all of the outstanding Shares or all or substantially all of the assets of the TNT Group or a merger of TNT (a ) must exceed the most recently offered consideration per Share by UPS after having exercised its Matching Right by at least 8% (eight percent), in order for any such Subsequent Higher Offer to qualify as a Competing Offer for the purpose of this Merger Protocol.
bona fide
Subsequent Higher Offer
14.5 In the event of a Competing Offer, the following shall apply:
 
 
 
 
14.6 This clause (including but not limited to the Matching Right) applies to any Subsequent Higher Offer constituting a Competing Offer.
mutatis mutandis
 
15.1 Subject to clause 15.2, this Merger Protocol and the rights and obligations thereunder may be terminated:
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.2 Any termination in accordance with this Merger Protocol shall not take effect until the expiry of ten (10) Business Days following receipt of the written termination notice by the non-terminating Party. The Parties acknowledge that during the period referred to in the previous sentence, they shall be entitled to seek remedies in accordance with clause 27, including but not limited to seeking provisional measures in summary proceedings () to prevent such termination from taking effect.
kort geding
15.3 If this Merger Protocol is terminated by TNT pursuant to clause 15.1(c) (but only if the Offer Condition under clause 4.3(b) (competition clearance) is not satisfied or waived in accordance with this Merger Protocol) or clause 15.1(d), UPS shall withdraw the Offer and shall not, directly or indirectly, either alone or together with another person, for a period of nine (9) months after termination of this Merger Protocol:
 
 
15.4 In the event that this Merger Protocol is terminated pursuant to this clause 15, none of the Parties shall have any claim hereunder of any nature whatsoever against the other Party, save (i) in
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
respect of accrued rights and/or liabilities arising from the prior breach of this Merger Protocol and, where applicable (ii) for any claim pursuant to clause 16. Clauses 15 up to and including clause 26.3 shall survive termination of this Merger Protocol.
 
16.1 To induce UPS to enter into this Merger Protocol and to compensate UPS for loss of management time and other costs and expenses it has already incurred and will continue to incur in connection with the (preparation of the) Offer, TNT shall pay to UPS an amount of EUR 50 million in cash, immediately upon first written request thereto from UPS, if this Merger Protocol is terminated:
 
 
16.2 To induce TNT to enter into this Merger Protocol and to compensate TNT for loss of management time and other costs and expenses it has already incurred and will continue to incur in connection with the (preparation of the) Offer, the loss of franchise, (in)direct loss and damages to TNT's business due to the announcement of the (potential) Offer and its effects on, among other things, employees, customers and suppliers, UPS shall pay to TNT an amount of EUR 200 million in cash, immediately upon first written request thereto from TNT, if this Merger Protocol is terminated by TNT pursuant to:
 
 
 
16.3 Parties acknowledge and agree that the obligations set forth in clauses 16.1 and 16.2 shall constitute a "" as referred to in article 6:91 DCC. Parties furthermore agree that any forfeiture by TNT or UPS, as the case may be, of the UPS or TNT compensation payment set out in clauses 16.1 and 16.2, respectively, pursuant to article 6:95 DCC et seq., be deemed to be in lieu of, and not in addition to, any liability () of TNT towards UPS or vice versa related to the events set forth in clauses 16.1 and 16.2 so that the provisions of this clause 16.3 shall be deemed to be a "" and not a "". The provisions of article 6:92, paragraphs 1 and 3 DCC shall, to the maximum extent possible, not apply. Each Party hereby waives any (potential) right it might have to request mitigation of such liability in any manner (in legal proceedings or otherwise).
boetebeding
schadevergoedingsplicht
schadevergoedingsbeding
strafbeding
 
17.1 The substance of this Merger Protocol (including a summary of clauses 6, 7, 8 and 9) will be disclosed in the joint press release attached hereto as Schedule 2, in the Offer Memorandum, the Position Statement and furthermore as required by the Applicable Rules.
17.2 The Parties will co-operate in ensuring that all filings and notices required by the Merger Rules, or as otherwise required by the AFM or Euronext Amsterdam are timely and properly made.
17.3 Notwithstanding clause 17.1, no Party shall, without the written approval of the other Party, disclose or provide this Merger Protocol to anyone, except to the extent that it is obliged to
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
make such a disclosure pursuant to the Applicable Rules or order of a court or other governmental authority. Where possible, the disclosing Party shall, prior to disclosure, consult the other Party about the form and contents of such disclosure.
17.4 UPS and TNT agree to consult with each other with respect to any and all further press releases and meetings with journalists in connection with the Offer, if and to the extent reasonably possible.
17.5 The Confidentiality Agreement agreed between the Parties will remain in full force and effect.
 
18.1 With the exception of clause 18.2, none of the Parties may assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Merger Protocol without the prior written consent of the other Parties.
18.2 UPS is entitled to assign any and all of its rights and obligations under this Merger Protocol to any of its wholly-owned subsidiaries. In the event of such assignment, this Merger Protocol shall, insofar as it refers to UPS, apply to the designated assignee. UPS shall remain jointly and severally liable with the designated assignee for the proper performance of any obligations assigned to the designated assignee under this clause 18.2. If TNT Express N.V. will be liquidated or dissolved, TNT is, immediately prior to such liquidation or dissolution, entitled to assign any and all of its rights and obligations under this Merger Protocol to TNT Nederland B.V. or any other TNT Affiliate. UPS shall cause the relevant members of the board of directors of UPS, of the Executive Board of TNT and of the executive boards of the relevant wholly-owned subsidiaries to execute and perform all such deeds, documents, assurances, acts and things and to exercise all powers and rights available to them, in whatever capacity, including the giving of all waivers and consents and the passing of all resolutions reasonably required to ensure that the Parties and their representatives (if any) give effect to the provisions of this clause.
mutatis mutandis
 
Except where this Merger Protocol provides otherwise, each Party shall pay its own costs relating to the negotiation, preparation, execution and performance of this Merger Protocol and any documents executed pursuant thereto.
 
The rights of any Party shall not be prejudiced or restricted by any indulgence or forbearance extended to any other Party and no waiver by any Party in respect of any breach shall operate as a waiver in respect of any subsequent breach.
 
To the extent permitted by law, the Parties waive their rights, if any, to (i) in whole or in part annul, rescind or dissolve (including any ) this Agreement, and (ii) invoke section 6:228 of the Dutch Civil Code in the sense that an error () shall remain for the risk and account of the Party in error as referred to in section 6:228, subsection 2 of the DCC.
gehele dan wel partile ontbinding en vernietiging
dwaling
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
The Parties undertake to each other to execute and perform all such deeds, documents, assurances, acts and things and to exercise all powers and rights available to them, in whatever capacity, including the giving of all waivers and consents and the passing of all resolutions reasonably required to ensure that the Parties and their representatives (if any) give effect to the provisions of this Merger Protocol.
 
If any provision of this Merger Protocol is or is held to be invalid or unenforceable, then so far as it is invalid or unenforceable it has no effect and is deemed not to be included in this Merger Protocol. This shall not invalidate any of the remaining provisions of this Merger Protocol. The Parties shall use their respective best efforts to replace any invalid or unenforceable provision by a valid provision the effect of which is as close as possible to the intended effect of the invalid or unenforceable provision.
 
24.1 Except as set out in clause 9.3, this Merger Protocol does not contain any stipulation in favor of any third party ().
derdenbeding
 
With the exception of the Confidentiality Agreement, this Merger Protocol constitutes the entire agreement between and understanding of the Parties in respect of the Offer and the Merger and any preceding or concurrent oral or written agreements or arrangements between the Parties in relation to thereto are hereby superseded. A variation to this Merger Protocol is valid only if it is in writing and signed by each of the Parties.
 
26.1 Any notice or other formal communication to be given under this Merger Protocol shall be in writing and signed by or on behalf of the party giving it. It shall be:
 
 
In each case it shall be marked for the attention of the relevant party set out in clause 26.2 (or as otherwise notified from time to time under this Merger Protocol). Any notice given by hand delivery, post or e-mail shall be deemed to have been duly given:
 
 
 
unless there is evidence that it was received earlier than this and provided that, where (in the case of delivery by hand or by e-mail) the delivery or transmission occurs after 6 p.m. on a Business Day or on a day which is not a Business Day, service shall be deemed to occur at 9 a.m. on the next following Business Day. References to time in this clause are to local time in the country of the addressee.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
26.2 The (email) addresses of the parties for the purpose of clause 26.1 are:
 
 
With written copies:
 
and
 
 
 
With a written copy to:
 
 
26.3 All notices or formal communications under or in connection with this Merger Protocol shall be in the English language or, if in any other language, accompanied by a translation into English. In the event of any conflict between the English text and the text in any other language, the English text shall prevail.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
27.1 This Merger Protocol is construed in accordance with and shall be governed exclusively by the laws of The Netherlands.
27.2 Without prejudice to clauses 4.8 through 4.12, and without prejudice to the right of each Party to seek injunctive relief with the relevant Dutch courts (), all disputes in connection with this Merger Protocol (including any dispute as to the validity of this Merger Protocol, any questions in respect of the authority of the arbitrators and any dispute about whether a particular dispute should be referred to arbitration) shall be finally settled in accordance with the arbitration rules of the Netherlands Arbitration Institute (). The arbitral tribunal shall be composed of three arbitrators, to be appointed in accordance with such arbitration rules. The place of the arbitration will be Amsterdam, The Netherlands. The arbitral procedure will be conducted in the English language. The arbitrators will decide according to the rules of law.
kort geding
Nederlands Arbitrage Instituut
This clause 27.2 shall also apply to disputes arising out of or in connection with agreements which are connected with this Merger Protocol, unless the relevant agreement expressly provides otherwise.
Consolidation of arbitral proceedings with other proceedings as provided for in article 1046 of the Dutch Code of Civil Procedure is excluded.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
this Merger Protocol is signed by the Parties (or their duly authorised representatives) on 19 March 2012.
I
N
WITNESS
WHEREOF
For and on behalf of UPS
 
For and on behalf of TNT
 
For and on behalf of the Supervisory Board
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
1.1 In the Merger Protocol, the following words and expressions shall have the following meanings:
means the outstanding American Depositary Receipts outstanding, each representing one ordinary share.
ADRs
means in relation to any Party, any subsidiary or parent company of that Party and any subsidiary of such parent company, in each case from time to time.
Affiliates
means the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets ().
AFM
Stichting Autoriteit Financile Markten
has the meaning given to it in clause 13.2(b).
Alternative Proposal
means the Dutch Competition Act (), the HSR Act, the EC Merger Regulation and any other law, regulation or decree (whether national, international, federal, state or local) designed to prohibit, restrict or regulate actions for the purpose or effect of monopolization or restraint of trade or the significant impediment of effective competition.
Antitrust Laws
Mededingingswet
means the Wft, the Decree, any rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Wft and the Decree, the policy guidelines and instructions of the AFM, the WOR, the , the rules and regulations of Euronext Amsterdam and, in as far as applicable, NYSE, and the DCC, the relevant securities and employee consultation rules and regulations in other applicable jurisdictions and any relevant Antitrust Laws.
Applicable Rules
SER Fusiegedragsregels 2000
has the meaning given to it in clause 4.11.
Binding Advice
has the meaning given to it in clause 4.11.
Binding Advisor
has the meaning given to it in clause 11.4.
BMPlan
means the executive board () of TNT and the supervisory board () of TNT together.
Boards
raad van bestuur
raad van commissarissen
has the meaning given to it in clause 11.4.
Bonus Matching Rights
means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks, Euronext Amsterdam and NYSE are generally open in The Netherlands and in the United States of America for normal business, except where it is used to refer to terms set out in the Decree, in which case it means any working day designated as such in the
Business Day
Algemene Bank-CAO.
means the call option granted to the Foundation under the Foundation Option Agreement as referred to in Recital (L).
Call Option
means the last day of the Offer Period.
Closing Date
means the group constituted by UPS and TNT and their respective Affiliates after the Settlement Date.
Combined Group
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
means the conditions precedent to the launch of the Offer, as set out in clause 4.1.
Commencement Conditions
means the date on which the Offer is made.
Commencement Date
has the meaning given to it in clause 4.6.
Commitments
has the meaning given to it in clause 14.3.
Competing Offer
means the confidentiality agreement between UPS and TNT dated 11 January 2012.
Confidentiality Agreement
has the meaning given to it in clause 4.10.
Counter-Notice of Disagreement
means the Dutch Civil Code ().
DCC
Burgerlijk Wetboek
means the Decree on Public Takeovers ().
Decree
Besluit Openbare Biedingen Wft
means the information provided in the Pre-Signing Due Diligence and the Confirmatory Due Diligence.
Due Diligence Information
means the Dutch corporate governance code, dated 1 January 2009 as established under article 2:391 paragraph 5 of the DCC.
Dutch Corporate Governance Code
means Council Regulation (EC) No. 139/2004.
EC Merger Regulation
means the extraordinary shareholders meeting of TNT in connection with the Offer to be held at least six (6) Business Days before the Closing Date in accordance with article 18, paragraph 1 of the Decree.
EGM
means the approvals, clearances and other forms of consent or non-objection and (formal or informal) advices, opinions or points of view from employee representatives, including those of the Works Council, European works council and trade unions, required in connection with the Offer.
Employee Clearances
has the meaning given to it in clause 11.4.
Employee Matching Rights
has the meaning given to it in Schedule 5.
Enquiries
means Phase I Competition Clearance or Phase II Competition Clearance, as the case may be, or, if relevant, any approval of any EU Member State in case of a referral by the European Commission to a national competition authority.
EU Competition Clearance
means the stock exchange of Euronext Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext, the regulated market of Euronext N.V.
Euronext Amsterdam
means the European Commission.
European Commission
means the period commencing on the date of this Merger Protocol and ending on the date of termination of this Merger Protocol, unless the Offer has been made, in which case the Exclusivity Period shall end on the earlier of the Settlement Date and the date of termination of this Merger Protocol.
Exclusivity Period
means the executive board () of TNT.
Executive Board
raad van bestuur
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
means the fairness opinion issued by Goldman Sachs International and the fairness opinion issued by Lazard B.V. as referred to in clause 3.2.
Fairness Opinions
means Stichting Continuteit TNT Express.
Foundation
means the option agreement between TNT and the Foundation dated 31 May 2011.
Foundation Option Agreement
means the United States Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
HSR Act
means the BMPlan and OMPlan together.
Incentive Plans
means the independent members on the Supervisory Board, from time to time.
Independent Members
has the meaning given to it in clause 7.1.
Integration Committee
means the period from the date of this Merger Protocol until the earlier of (i) the Settlement Date or (ii) the date on which this Merger Protocol is terminated.
Interim Period
has the meaning given to it in Recital (Q).
Irrevocable
has the meaning given to it in clause 2.6.
Joint Announcement
means any employee of TNT Group earning a gross salary of EUR 250,000 or more.
Key Employee
means 28 February 2013.
Long Stop Date
has the meaning given to it in clause 14.5(c).
Matching Revised Offer
has the meaning given to it in clause 14.5(b).
Matching Right
means any change, event, circumstance or effect (any such items an Effect) individually or when taken together with all other Effects that have occurred between the date of this Merger Protocol and the Commencement Date or the Closing Date, as the case may be, that is or is reasonably likely to be sustainably materially adverse to the business, the assets, capitalization or financial condition of TNT taken as a whole with its Affiliates such that UPS cannot reasonably be expected to commence the Offer or to declare the Offer unconditional, as the case may be, , that for the purpose of determining whether there has been, or will be, a Material Adverse Effect, Effects will be taken into account which:
Material Adverse Effect
provided, however
only
 
 
 
it being understood that any Effect which is known or should have been known to UPS as per the date of this Merger Protocol will not qualify as a Material Adverse Effect.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
has the meaning given to it in Schedule 5.
Matters in Dispute
means the states that are party to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
Member States
means the Offer and all transactions contemplated therewith.
Merger
means the New York Stock Exchange, operated by NYSE Euronext.
NYSE
has the meaning given to it in clause 4.9.
Notice of Disagreement
means the recommended public offer () to be made by UPS or a wholly-owned subsidiary of UPS in respect of all Shares, as described in this Merger Protocol.
Offer
openbaar bod
means the conditions precedent to the Offer, as set out in clause 4.3.
Offer Conditions
means the offer memorandum () to be made available by UPS in connection with the Offer (together with all amendments and supplements thereto).
Offer Memorandum
biedingsbericht
means the acceptance period () of the Offer.
Offer Period
aanmeldingstermijn
means a cash amount of EUR 9.50 (nine euro and fifty cents) for each Share tendered (cum dividend, except for a financial year 2011 final dividend payment not exceeding EUR 0.004 per Share).
Offer Price
means the approval from the relevant antitrust authorities in Australia, China, Israel, Russia, Turkey and the United States in respect of the transactions contemplated by this Merger Protocol or the expiry of the statutory or otherwise imposed waiting period in the aforementioned countries.
Other Key Competition Clearances
has the meaning given to it in clause 11.4.
OMPlan
has the meaning given to it in clause 11.4.
One-Off Matching Rights
means UPS and TNT and means any single one of them.
Parties
Party
means that the transactions contemplated by this Merger Protocol are declared by the European Commission to be compatible with the common market, whether unconditionally or subject to any such conditions, obligations, undertakings or modifications as the decision may identify, pursuant to Article 6(1)(a), 6(1)(b) or 6(2) of the EC Merger Regulation or deemed to have been declared compatible with the common market pursuant to Article 10(6) of the EC Merger Regulation.
Phase I Competition Clearance
means that the transactions contemplated by this Merger Protocol are declared by the European Commission to be compatible with the common market, whether unconditionally or subject to any such conditions, obligations, undertakings or modifications as the decision may identify, pursuant to Article 8(1) or 8(2) of the EC Merger Regulation or deemed to have been declared compatible with the common market pursuant to Article 10(6) of the EC Merger Regulation.
Phase II Competition Clearance
means the in-depth investigation by the European Commission pursuant to Article 6(1)(c) of the EC Merger Regulation.
Phase II Investigation
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
means the position statement of the Boards of TNT to be issued in connection with the Offer.
Position Statement
means the post closing acceptance period () of no more than two (2) weeks that may be announced by UPS in the event that the Offer is declared unconditional ().
Post Closing Acceptance Period
na-aanmeldingstermijn
gestanddoening
has the meaning given to it in clause 6.3.
Post-Closing Measures
has the meaning given to it in clause 14.1.
Potential Competing Offer
means the high level due diligence investigation performed by UPS and its advisors into certain financial, operational, legal and tax aspects of the TNT Group and its businesses prior to the signing of this Merger Protocol.
Pre-Signing Due Diligence
means the preference shares in the share capital of TNT with a nominal value of EUR 0.08 each.
Protective Preference Shares
has the meaning given to it in clause 3.1(b).
Recommendation
has the meaning given to it in clause 4.6.
Regulatory Authority
means the relationship agreement entered into by TNT and TNT N.V. (currently named PostNL N.V.) on 7 April 2011.
Relationship Agreement
means all schedules to this Merger Protocol.
Schedules
means the date on which, in accordance with the terms of the Offer, UPS will pay the Offer Price to the holders of Shares.
Settlement Date
means the issued ordinary shares in the share capital of TNT, from time to time, together with any shares that may be issued by TNT pursuant to the exercise of share options and/or convertible debt instruments prior to the Closing Date, and means any single one of them.
Shares
Share
has the meaning given to it in clause 9.1.
Special Covenants
has the meaning given to it in clause 14.4.
Subsequent Higher Offer
means the supervisory board () of TNT.
Supervisory Board
raad van commissarissen
has the meaning given to it in clause 15.1(b).
Terminating Party
means TNT Express N.V., a public limited liability company () incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands, having its corporate seat in Amsterdam, the Netherlands and its office address at Taurusavenue 111, 2132 LS Hoofddorp, The Netherlands.
TNT
naamloze vennootschap
means TNT and its Affiliates.
TNT Group
means 30 June 2012.
Ultimate Launch Date
means the day on which UPS publicly declares the Offer unconditional, which shall be no later than the third Business Day after the Closing Date.
Unconditional Date
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
means United Parcel Service, Inc., a corporation organised and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, having its address at 55 Glenlake Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia 30328, USA.
UPS
means the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision ().
Wft
Wet op het Financieel Toezicht
means the Dutch Works Council Act ().
WOR
Wet op de Ondernemingsraden
means the central works council of TNT Nederland B.V. (previously named TNT Head Office B.V.).
Works Council
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
TNT represents and warrants to UPS that at the date of this Merger Protocol, each of the following is true and accurate:
1.1 TNT is validly existing and is a company duly incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands as a limited liability company (). Each Affiliate is a corporation or other entity duly organised and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organisation.
naamloze vennootschap
1.2 TNT and each of its Affiliates have full power and authority (corporate or otherwise) to carry on its respective business as currently conducted and, with respect to TNT, to enter into, execute, deliver and carry out the terms of this Merger Protocol and to incur and discharge its obligations provided for herein.
1.3 TNT has taken all corporate action required by it to authorise it to perform its obligations pursuant to this Merger Protocol and neither the execution of this Merger Protocol by TNT, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will conflict with, or result in, any breach of any material obligation of TNT or trigger any obligations or liabilities of material importance for TNT as a whole.
1.4 This Merger Protocol has been duly and properly executed and duly delivered, as required by law, by TNT, and assuming due authorisation, execution and delivery of this Merger Protocol by UPS, constitutes a legal and binding obligation of TNT, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganisation or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of the creditors' rights generally or by general principles of equity.
1.5 No action has been taken or is contemplated to dissolve or liquidate TNT or any of its Affiliates, and, to the knowledge of TNT, no insolvency proceedings have been proposed, commenced or threatened against TNT or any of its Affiliates and no judgment has been made or is pending declaring TNT or any of its Affiliates insolvent.
1.6 The Shares are duly authorised, validly issued and fully paid up and, at the date of this Merger Protocol, constitute the entire issued share capital of TNT.
1.7 Recitals (G), (H) and (I) correctly reflect the details of the share capital of TNT.
1.8 There are no other outstanding rights granted by TNT to subscribe for any securities in TNT, other than the ADRs and any entitlements pursuant to the Incentive Plans and except for the rights granted to the Foundation pursuant to the Foundation Option Agreement.
1.9 To the best knowledge of TNT, the public disclosures made by or on behalf of TNT since 26 May 2011 (including but not limited to regulatory filings, financial statements, press releases and other information communicated to the market) are true and accurate in all material respects and do not require any further disclosure or update in order to avoid any such prior disclosure being materially incorrect, misleading or incomplete by reference to the date of the relevant disclosure and TNT has not failed to observe any obligation to make any such public disclosure.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
1.10 In so far as TNT has postponed the public disclosure of price sensitive information as permitted by, and in accordance with, article 5:25i Wft, such information has been fairly disclosed to UPS in the Pre-Signing Due Diligence.
1.11 The entitlements pursuant to the Incentive Plans are correctly set out in this Merger Protocol.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
UPS represents and warrants to TNT that at the date of this Merger Protocol, each of the following is true and accurate:
1.1 UPS is validly existing and is a company duly incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware.
1.2 UPS has full power and authority (corporate or otherwise) to carry on its business as currently conducted and to enter into, execute, deliver and carry out the terms of this Merger Protocol and to incur and discharge its obligations provided for herein.
1.3 UPS has taken all corporate action required by it to authorise it to perform its obligations pursuant to this Merger Protocol and neither the execution of this Merger Protocol by UPS, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will conflict with, or result in, any breach of any material obligation of UPS.
1.4 This Merger Protocol has been duly and properly executed and duly delivered, as required by law, by UPS, and assuming due authorisation, execution and delivery of this Merger Protocol by TNT, constitutes a legal and binding obligation of UPS, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganisation or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of the creditors' rights generally or by general principles of equity.
1.5 At the date of this Merger Protocol, UPS does not hold any Shares or rights to Shares, other than in respect of the Irrevocable.
1.6 Given its AA- corporate credit rating , its current cash reserves (including marketable securities) of over USD 4 billion and its existing relationships with banks, UPS will be able to finance the acquisition of Shares pursuant to the Offer and subsequent squeeze-out proceedings. UPS will determine the optimal financing structure and finalize the substance of definitive arrangements with its banks before the date on which it would need to make a certain funds announcement as required by article 7 paragraph 4 of the Decree.
1.7 To the best knowledge of UPS, the information relating to UPS provided by or on behalf of UPS to TNT on the occasion of the presentations and negotiations in respect of the Offer during the period between 13 December 2011 and the date hereof, is true and accurate in all material respects and does not require any update in order to avoid any such information being materially incorrect or misleading.
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
During the Interim Period, without the prior written consent of UPS, which shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed, TNT shall refrain from the following actions (and TNT shall procure that the companies forming part of the TNT Group shall refrain from taking any such actions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This agreement is made this 18th day of March 2012 (the ).
Agreement
BETWEEN:
 
 
The parties mentioned above are hereinafter also collectively referred to as the and individually as a .
Parties
Party
WHEREAS:
(A) The Shareholder is the holder of 162,130,035 ordinary shares (the ) in TNT Express N.V., a public company with limited liability () incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands, having its statutory seat in Amsterdam, The Netherlands (the ), constituting approximately 29.8% of the total issued and outstanding ordinary shares of the Company.
Current Shareholding
naamloze vennootschap
Company
(B) On 7 April 2011, the Company and the Shareholder entered into a relationship agreement setting out certain arrangements in respect of the Current Shareholding (the ), which was retained by the Shareholder as a result of the statutory demerger of the Company from the Shareholder.
Relationship Agreement
(C) The Offeror contemplates to make, or have a wholly-owned subsidiary make, a public offer to acquire all the issued and outstanding ordinary shares with a nominal value of EUR 0.08 each of the Company (the ) against a consideration in cash of EUR 9.50 per share (the ) (which price includes any (interim) dividends and other distributions that may be declared and/or paid in the period between the date of this Agreement and completion of the Offer, except for a financial year 2011 final dividend payment not exceeding EUR 0.004 per Share) (the ).
Shares
Offer Price
Offer
(D) The Offer, if and when made, will be made pursuant to a merger protocol between the Offeror and the Company (the ).
Merger Protocol
(E) The Offeror wishes to secure the acceptance of the Offer by the Shareholder in respect of all Shares held by the Shareholder.
(F) The Shareholder is supportive of the Offer and is willing to (i) tender its Shares under the Offer and (ii) support the Offeror in taking the actions necessary for a successful completion of the Offer, including the voting in favour of certain shareholder resolutions proposed by the Offeror, as further set out in this Agreement.
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
 
 
 
AD
 
 
 
 
 
(the Shares referred to under (i), (ii) and (iii) together the ); and
Subject Shares
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Offeror and the Shareholder agree that the Shareholder shall have full discretion as to the timing and manner of application of the Escrow Amount or any part thereof, provided that (i) the monies held from time to time in the Escrow Fund may solely be used for the Permitted Purpose and (ii) the Shareholder shall in any event not refrain from making any required payment in connection with the Bonds if and to the extent funds are available in the Escrow Account.
The Shareholder hereby undertakes to the Offeror to have the Escrow Fund fully set up and implemented (including as to payment into the Escrow Fund of the Escrow Amount) by no later than five (5) Business Days after the Settlement Date. Sufficiently prior to such set-up and implementation of the Escrow Fund, the Shareholder will provide the Offeror with final drafts of all documentation in connection with the Escrow Fund for verification purposes, which documentation shall not be entered into by the Shareholder without prior written consent of the Offeror (which consent shall not be withheld or delayed if such documentation complies with the provisions of this clause 3.2).
The shall be an amount of EUR 700,000,000 (in words: seven hundred million euro), less any payments made by any member of the Shareholder Group on account of payment of any principal amount outstanding under the Bonds between the date of this Agreement and the Settlement Date.
Escrow Amount
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A notice or other communication under or in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered express mail (and air mail if overseas) or by email to the party due to receive the notice or communication, at its address or email address set out hereunder or another address specified by that party by written notice to the others.
The Offeror
 
 
The Shareholder acknowledges that (i) the Offeror and the Company agreed in the Merger Protocol that the Company will waive any and all rights it may have vis--vis the Shareholder pursuant to clause 6.2 of the Relationship Agreement, subject to the condition subsequent () of termination of this Agreement pursuant to its terms and (ii) the Company has given written notice of such waiver to the Shareholder.
ontbindende voorwaarde
 
This Agreement is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of The Netherlands. Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement will be finally settled
 
by arbitration in accordance with the rules of the Netherlands Arbitration Institute (). The arbitral tribunal will be composed of three arbitrators appointed in accordance with those rules. The place of the arbitration will be Amsterdam, The Netherlands. The language of the arbitration will be English. The arbitrators will decide according to the rules of law. This paragraph shall also apply to disputes between the parties to this Agreement arising in connection with agreements that are connected with this Agreement, unless the relevant agreement expressly provides otherwise.
Nederlands Arbitrage Instituut
 
in two counterparts on the date first above written.
As agreed and signed
 
 
 
PostNL has signed an irrevocable undertaking with UPS in support of UPS' offer for TNT Express
Today United Parcel Service, Inc. ("UPS") and TNT Express N.V. ("TNT Express") jointly announced that they have reached agreement by entering into a Merger Protocol on an all-cash public offer by UPS for all issued and outstanding ordinary shares of TNT Express (the "TNT Shares") at an offer price of  9.50 for each TNT Share (the "Offer").
PostNL N.V. ("PostNL"), holding approximately 29.8% of the TNT Shares, has irrevocably undertaken to tender all TNT Shares held by it under the Offer subject to customary undertakings and conditions (the "Irrevocable Undertaking"). The Irrevocable Undertaking terminates, , upon termination of the Merger Protocol between UPS and TNT Express. PostNL may furthermore terminate the Irrevocable Undertaking in the event that the executive and supervisory boards of TNT Express revoke their recommendation of the Offer upon a bona fide third-party offeror making an offer which exceeds the offer price by at least 8% that is considered by the executive and supervisory boards of TNT Express to be substantially more beneficial to TNT Express and that is not matched by UPS.
inter alia
In the context of the Offer, UPS and TNT Express agreed that TNT Express will not invoke certain provisions of the Relationship Agreement dated 7 April 2011 between PostNL and TNT Express. If the Offer has not been declared unconditional () ultimately on 19 September 2012, PostNL shall be permitted to sell and/or transfer up to a maximum of 54,320,242 TNT Shares held by it (being approximately 10% of the total issued and outstanding share capital of TNT Express at the date hereof).
gestand gedaan'
If the Offer will be effected at the offer price of  9.50 for each TNT Share, it is expected that PostNL will receive a cash amount of approximately  1,540 million. PostNL will put an amount of 700 million of the proceeds of the sale of all its TNT Shares in an escrow account which will be used for the purpose of the reduction of its debt, in line with PostNL's financial policy.
This announcement does not constitute an offer to purchase or the solicitation of an offer to sell any securities, nor shall there be any sale or purchase of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
About PostNL
PostNL processes 8.7 billion addressed postal items (including 106 million parcels) each year and delivers to addresses in the Benelux, Germany, the UK and Italy. PostNL's main business is mail, parcels and e-commerce. The company also provides services in the area of data and document management, direct marketing and fulfilment. PostNL employs some 65.500 people. In 2011 the company generated a turnover of nearly 4.3 billion euros.
 

Exhibit 99.1
This is a joint press release by United Parcel Service, Inc. and TNT Express N.V., pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 Paragraph 3 and Section 6 Paragraph 1 of the Decree on Public Takeover Bids (Besluit Openbare Biedingen Wft) in connection with the intended public offer by United Parcel Service, Inc. or a wholly owned subsidiary of United Parcel Service, Inc. for all the issued and outstanding ordinary shares in the capital of TNT Express N.V. This announcement does not constitute an offer, or any solicitation of any offer, to buy or subscribe for any securities in TNT Express N.V. Any offer will be made only by means of an offer memorandum. This announcement is not for release, publication or distribution, in whole or in part, in or into, directly or indirectly, Australia, Canada or Japan.
 
Transaction Highlights
 
 
 
Compelling Strategic Rationale with Significant Benefits for All Stakeholders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atlanta, GA / Hoofddorp, March 19, 2012  United Parcel Service, Inc. (NYSE: UPS) and TNT Express N.V. (NYSE Euronext: TNTE) today jointly announce that they have reached agreement on a recommended all-cash public offer of 9.50 per ordinary share by UPS for TNT Express (the "Offer"). TNT Express' Executive and Supervisory Boards unanimously intend to support and recommend the Offer.
The offer price of 9.50 (including any dividend or other distribution other than the financial year 2011 final dividend payment not exceeding 0.004 per share) represents a 53.7% premium to TNT Express' unaffected share price on February 16, 2012 of 6.18, the day before TNT Express and UPS announced their ongoing discussions. The Offer values the issued and outstanding share capital of TNT Express at 5.16 billion ($6.77 billion
(
1
)
).
The combination of UPS and TNT Express will create a global leader in the logistics industry, with annual revenues of more than 45 billion ($60 billion
(
1
)
) and will deliver significant benefits for the shareowners, customers, employees and other stakeholders of both companies.
Together, UPS and TNT Express will offer customers an enhanced, integrated global network that will provide greatly enhanced service to customers throughout the world. In addition, the two companies are a strong cultural fit given their intense focus on customer service, operational excellence, employee engagement and good corporate citizenship.
The proposed transaction will accelerate UPS's growth strategy and increase its geographic diversity and ability to provide customers comprehensive solutions. UPS currently estimates annual run-rate pre-tax cost synergies of approximately 400 to 550 million ($525 to $725 million
(
1
)
) a year, achieved by the end of the fourth year after closing. UPS believes that the cumulative pre-tax implementation costs related to achieving these synergies will be approximately 1 billion ($1.31 billion
(
1
)
) over the four-year integration period.
UPS and TNT Express believe this transaction will significantly enhance their ability to serve their customers' complex global logistics needs. Following the transaction, around 36% of the combined group's revenues will be generated outside the United States, up from 26% today at UPS. The combination underlines UPS's long-standing commitment to Europe, where it has maintained a presence since 1976, by strengthening its product capabilities through the addition of TNT Express' leading Intra-Europe road freight network. The combination also enhances UPS's existing position in fast growing regions such as Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Service lies at the heart of this proposed transaction. With a combined network and enhanced IT platforms, customers will have access to deeper product capabilities and broader reach through the expanded geographies served, giving them more choice and flexibility to support the growth and globalization of their businesses. The combination also will offer employees greater opportunities to be part of a global, growing and respected business.
"With this combination, both UPS and TNT Express will significantly enhance their ability to serve our combined customers' complex global logistics needs. The additional capabilities and broadened global footprint will support the growth and globalization of our customers' businesses. At the same time, this positions us for future growth, which will benefit our employees and shareowners," said Scott Davis, UPS Chairman and CEO.
"This combination will significantly enhance the capabilities of two strong companies. I am convinced that together we will be the supplier and employer of choice in the express delivery industry. Our customers will greatly benefit from our enhanced combined service offerings. To my 77,000 colleagues I say that the combination will create unique opportunities for development and growth in which we can participate," said Marie-Christine Lombard, TNT Express CEO.
 
Unanimous Support from Executive and Supervisory Boards of TNT Express
After careful consideration of all of TNT Express' strategic alternatives, the Executive and Supervisory Boards of TNT Express believe this transaction is in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders and intend to support and unanimously recommend the Offer for acceptance to TNT Express' shareholders. Goldman Sachs International has issued a fairness opinion to the Supervisory and Executive Boards of TNT Express and Lazard B.V. has issued a fairness opinion to the Supervisory Board, in each case to the effect that, as of today, the offer price is fair to the TNT Express shareholders from a financial point of view.
Irrevocable from PostNL
PostNL N.V., holder of approximately 29.8% of the outstanding shares of TNT Express, has committed itself to tender its shares under the offer if and when made. The irrevocable contains certain customary undertakings and conditions.
Corporate Governance and Integration
UPS recognizes that TNT Express' employees will play a pivotal role in the success of the combined entity and they will be treated accordingly. All employee rights, covenants, and benefits under current ownership will be respected. As a result of the proposed transaction, the employees of the combined group will have broader career opportunities based on our future growth expectations.
UPS has a long-standing history of developing people through its promotion from within philosophy, giving employees the opportunity to hold positions at the highest levels of the company. Additionally, UPS and TNT Express share a common business culture and believe that a combination of the businesses will prove attractive to employees. Throughout integration, the selection and appointment of staff for any function within the newly combined entity, will be subject to applicable laws, and be based on the "best person for the job" principle. In case of potential consequences for employees of the combination, the principle of fairness will be applied as to the impact of redundancies on TNT Express and UPS staff.
UPS spent considerable time evaluating potential integration opportunities as it evaluated this transaction. In the coming months, UPS and TNT Express will work together through the establishment of an Integration Committee to develop plans to combine both companies' strong networks and customer relationships while maintaining the same level of quality and service associated with both companies. UPS is committed to maintaining an ongoing dialogue with, and to closely involve, employee representatives in line with legal requirements and UPS and TNT Express' leading employment practices.
UPS recognizes the expertise of TNT Express' leading road freight network in Europe. It also appreciates the leading role that the road freight management will occupy in the combined group. UPS undertakes to create a meaningful center of excellence for marketing, sales, and operations in The Netherlands. UPS recognizes the significant value of TNT Express' operations, assets and people in Lige and will seek to continue the future utilization of these operations, assets and people within the combined group.
TNT Nederland B.V. will maintain the mitigated structure regime. After successful completion of the Offer, the Supervisory Board of TNT Express will be composed of at least three members identified by UPS and two members of the current Supervisory Board of TNT Express, namely Shemaya Levy and Margot Scheltema. These two members will function as independent Supervisory Directors within the meaning of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and shall continue to serve on the Supervisory Board until the third anniversary of the settlement date.
 
Financing of the Offer
The Offer values 100% of the issued and outstanding share capital at 5.16 billion. UPS intends to finance the Offer by utilizing $3 billion in existing cash on balance sheet and through new debt arrangements. UPS will make a timely certain funds announcement as required by Section 7 Paragraph 4 of the Decree on Public Takeover Bids (). UPS has a strong financial position and remains committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Besluit Openbare Biedingen Wft
Pre-Offer and Offer Conditions
The commencement of the Offer is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following pre-offer conditions: (i) no material adverse effect having occurred, (ii) no breach of the merger protocol having occurred, (iii) approval of the offer memorandum by the AFM, (iv) no revocation of the recommendation by TNT Express' Executive Board and Supervisory Board, (v) Stichting Continuteit TNT Express not having exercised its call option right to have protective preference shares issued to it, (vi) no notification having been received from the AFM that preparations of the offer are in breach of the offer rules and (vii) no order, stay judgment or decree having been issued prohibiting the transaction.
If and when made, the consummation of the Offer will be subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the following offer conditions: (i) a minimum acceptance of 80% of the TNT Express ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis, (ii) relevant competition clearances for the Offer having been obtained, (iii) no material adverse effect having occurred, (iv) no breach of the merger protocol having occurred, (v) no revocation of the recommendations by TNT Express' Executive Board and Supervisory Board (vi) Stichting Continuteit TNT Express not having exercised its call option right to have protective preference shares issued to it and having agreed to terminate its call option subject to the Offer being declared unconditional, (vii) no notification having been received from the AFM that preparations of the Offer are in breach of the offer rules and (viii) no order, stay judgment or decree having been issued prohibiting the transaction.
UPS and TNT Express have done extensive preparatory work on the required competition filings. UPS is confident that it will secure all relevant competition approvals.
On termination of the Merger Protocol because of the competition offer condition not being satisfied or waived, UPS will forfeit a termination fee to TNT Express equal to 200 million.
Competing Offer
UPS and TNT Express may terminate the merger protocol in the event that a bona fide third-party offeror makes an offer which is binding upon such party, exceeds the Offer Price by at least 8% and is considered by the Executive and Supervisory board of TNT Express to be substantially more beneficial to TNT Express. In the event of a competing offer, UPS will be given the opportunity to match such offer, in which case the merger protocol may not be terminated by TNT Express. TNT Express has entered into customary undertakings not to solicit offers from third parties.
On termination of the Merger Protocol on account of a competing offer, TNT Express will forfeit a termination fee to UPS equal to 50 million.
 
Indicative Timetable
UPS and TNT Express will seek to obtain all the necessary approvals and competition clearances as soon as practicable. The required advice and consultation procedures with TNT Express' Central Works Council, European Works Council and unions will be commenced immediately. The cooperation of TNT Express is conditional upon Central Works Council advice.
It is UPS's intention to submit a request for approval of its offer document to the AFM within 8 weeks from today and to publish the offer memorandum during Q2 2012 in accordance with the applicable statutory timetable. TNT Express will hold an informative Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) at least 6 business days before closing of the offer period in accordance with Section 18 Paragraph 1 of the Decree.
Advisors
Morgan Stanley, UBS and Bank of America Merrill Lynch are acting as financial advisors to UPS; Goldman Sachs is acting as financial advisor to TNT Express and Lazard is acting as financial advisor to the Supervisory Board of TNT Express.
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer is acting as legal counsel to UPS; Allen & Overy is acting as legal counsel to TNT Express.
Communication
Today at 10h00 CET, a joint press conference will take place for accredited representatives of the media at the Amsterdam Hilton Hotel, Diamond Room, Apollolaan 138, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
There will be a webcast of the press conference available at . For those wishing to listen in, dial in details are provided below:
http://www.pressroom.ups.com
 
 
 
 
Today at 13h30 CET (08h30 EST), an analyst and investor call will be held.
Investors and analysts who wish to ask a question should join the call using the following telephone number
 
Listeners only, should join the conference via live webcast where slides will also be available. The webcast registration will be located on the UPS Investor Relations home page beginning at 12h45 CET (07h45 EST). 
http://www.investors.ups.com
Replay of the conference call will be available after the call on the companies' websites.
 
Further Information
The information in this press release is not intended to be complete and for further information explicit reference is made to the offer memorandum, which is expected to be published during Q2 2012. The offer memorandum will contain details of the Offer. The TNT Express' shareholders are advised to review the offer memorandum in detail and to seek independent advice where appropriate in order to reach a reasoned judgment in respect of the content of the offer memorandum and the Offer itself.
For More Information
 
Maitland (UK)
Neil Bennett, Tom Buchanan, David Sturken
+44 207 379 5151
SPJ (The Netherlands)
Kees Jongsma, Wim Moerkerk
+31 20 647 8181
About UPS
United Parcel Service (NYSE:UPS) is a global leader in logistics, offering a broad range of solutions including the transportation of packages and freight, the facilitation of international trade, and the deployment of advanced technology to manage the world of business more efficiently. Headquartered in Atlanta, UPS serves more than 220 countries and territories worldwide. The company can be found on the Web at UPS.com and its corporate blog can be found at blog.UPS.com. To receive UPS news direct, visit pressroom.UPS.com/RSS.
About TNT Express
TNT Express (NYSE Euronext: TNTE) is one of the world's largest express delivery companies. On a daily basis, TNT Express delivers close to 1 million consignments ranging from documents and parcels to palletized freight. The company operates road and air transportation networks in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Asia-Pacific and the Americas. It employs 77,000 people and runs a fleet of 30,000 road vehicles and 46 aircraft. TNT Express had revenues of 7.25 billion ($9.51 billion
(
1
)
) in 2011.
Restrictions
This announcement is for information purposes only and does not constitute an offer or an invitation to acquire or dispose of any securities or investment advice or an inducement to enter into investment activity.
 
This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation of an offer to buy or acquire the securities of UPS or TNT Express in any jurisdiction.
The distribution of this press release may, in some countries, be restricted by law or regulation. Accordingly, persons who come into possession of this document should inform themselves of and observe these restrictions. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, UPS and TNT Express disclaim any responsibility or liability for the violation of any such restrictions by any person. Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities laws of that jurisdiction. Neither UPS, nor TNT Express, nor any of their advisors assumes any responsibility for any violation by any person of any of these restrictions. Any TNT Express shareholder who is in any doubt as to his position should consult an appropriate professional advisor without delay. This announcement is not to be published or distributed in or to Australia, Canada or Japan.
Notice to US holders of TNT Express Shares
The Offer will be made for the securities of a Dutch company and is subject to Dutch disclosure requirements, which are different from those of the United States. Some of the financial information included in this announcement has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and thus may not be comparable to financial information of US companies or companies whose financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The Offer will be made in the United States pursuant to the applicable US tender offer rules and otherwise in accordance with the requirements of the Decree. Accordingly, the Offer will be subject to disclosure and other procedural requirements, including with respect to withdrawal rights, offer timetable, settlement procedures and timing of payments, that are different from those applicable under US domestic tender offer procedures and law.
The receipt of cash pursuant to the Offer by a US holder of TNT Express shares may be a taxable transaction for US federal income tax purposes and under applicable state and local, as well as foreign and other tax laws. Each holder of TNT Express shares is urged to consult his independent professional advisor immediately regarding the tax consequences of acceptance of the offer.
It may be difficult for US holders of TNT Express shares to enforce their rights and claims arising out of the US federal securities laws, since TNT Express is located in a country other than the United States, and some or all of its officers and directors may be residents of a country other than the United States. US holders of TNT Express shares may not be able to sue a non-US company or its officers or directors in a non-US court for violations of the US securities laws. Further, it may be difficult to compel a non-US company and its affiliates to subject themselves to a US court's judgment.
In accordance with normal Dutch practice and pursuant to Rule 14e-5(b) of the US Exchange Act, UPS or its nominees, or its brokers (acting as agents), may from time to time make certain purchases of, or arrangements to purchase, TNT Express shares outside of the United States, other than pursuant to the Offer, before or during the period in which the Offer remains open for acceptance. These purchases may occur either in the open market at prevailing prices or in private transactions at negotiated prices. Any information about such purchases will be disclosed as required in the Netherlands, will be reported to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets () and disclosed in the offer memorandum or by press release.
Stichting Autoriteit Financile Markten
 
Forward Looking Statements
This press release may include "forward-looking statements" and language indicating trends, such as "anticipated" and "expected." Although UPS and TNT Express believe that the assumptions upon which their respective financial information and their respective forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, they can give no assurance that these assumptions will prove to be correct. Neither UPS nor TNT Express, nor any of their advisors accepts any responsibility for any financial information contained in this press release relating to the business or operations or results or financial condition of the other or their respective groups.
 


