FILE:UPS/UPS-8K-20120507164838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
As described below under Item 5.07, shareowners approved the 2012 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan and the amendment to the Discounted Employee Stock Purchase Plan on May 3, 2012. A description of the material terms of each plan are set forth under the headings "Proposal 3Approval of the 2012 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan" and "Proposal 4Approval of the Amendment to the Discounted Employee Stock Purchase Plan" in the proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 12, 2012, which descriptions are hereby incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference. The 2012 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference in Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Amendment Number Three to the United Parcel Service, Inc. Discounted Employee Stock Purchase Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On May 3, 2012, we held our annual meeting of shareowners. Proxies for the meeting were solicited pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The following matters were submitted to a vote of the shareowners.
Election of Directors:
Votes regarding the election of 12 directors for a term expiring in 2013 were as follows:
 
Under our Bylaws, each of the directors was elected, having received more votes "for" than "against."
Ratification of Accountants:
Votes regarding the proposal to ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as our independent registered public accountants for the year ending December 31, 2012 were as follows:
 
The proposal passed.
Approval of 2012 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan:
Votes regarding the proposal to approve the 2012 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan were as follows:
 
The proposal passed.
Approval of Amendment to the Discounted Employee Stock Purchase Plan:
Votes regarding the proposal to approve an amendment to the Discounted Employee Stock Purchase Plan were as follows:
 
The proposal passed.
Shareowner Proposal:
Votes on a shareowner proposal regarding lobbying disclosure were as follows:
 
The proposal did not pass.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.2
WHEREAS, United Parcel Service, Inc. ("UPS") has adopted the United Parcel Service, Inc. Discounted Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective October 1, 2002 (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS, Pursuant to Section 15 of the Plan, the Board of Directors of UPS (the "Board") has the authority to amend the Plan, subject to shareholder approval in certain circumstances; and
WHEREAS, the Board has deemed it advisable to amend Section 4 of the Plan to increase the number of shares of Stock available for purchase under the Plan, subject to the approval of the shareholders of UPS of such amendment; and
WHEREAS, UPS desires to evidence such amendment by this Amendment Number Three;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that, effective as of February 9, 2012, the Plan shall be and hereby is amended as follows, subject to shareholder approval:
 
"There shall be twenty million (20,000,000) shares of Stock available under this Plan (subject to adjustment pursuant to  13), which shares of Stock may be reserved to the extent that the Administrator deems appropriate from authorized but unissued shares of Stock or from shares of Stock that have been reacquired by UPS."
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned certifies that United Parcel Service, Inc., based upon action by the Board dated February 9, 2012, has caused this Plan Amendment Number Three to be adopted.
 


