FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20061024165741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
________________________
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
October 24, 2006 (October 23, 2006)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
World Headquarters
1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(Address of principal executive offices)
(203) 356-5000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Disclosure of "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On October 23, 2006, the registrant issued a press release setting forth its financial results, including consolidated statements of income, supplemental information, and a reconciliation of reported results to adjusted results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, and consolidated balance sheets at September 30, 2006, June 30, 2006, and September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Pitney Bowes Announces Third Quarter Results
STAMFORD, Conn., Oct. 23 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE: PBI) today reported third quarter 2006 financial results.
For the third quarter 2006, revenue increased eight percent to $1.43 billion and income from continuing operations also rose eight percent to $144 million or $.64 per diluted share versus $.57 per diluted share for the prior year. This was a 12 percent increase in earnings per share over the prior year.
During the quarter, the company recorded an after-tax charge of $4 million or $.02 per diluted share as part of its previously announced restructuring program.
Excluding the impact of the restructuring charges in both periods, adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased nine percent from $.61 in the prior year to $.66 this quarter. This was in line with the company's guidance of $.65 to $.67 per diluted share.
The company's Chairman and CEO Michael J. Critelli, noted, "This quarter we continued to enhance the strength and resiliency of our business model as we invested in growth opportunities, while improving operating efficiency. Our confidence in the sustainability of our results was underscored during the quarter as our revenue and earnings per share were again both within our targeted growth ranges. We believe the company is uniquely positioned to take advantage of the many large and growing opportunities in the mailstream."
Net cash used in operating activities was $68 million during the quarter. The net use of cash during the quarter includes the payment of approximately $238 million of taxes related to the sale of Capital Services and the settlement with the IRS as previously disclosed. Free cash flow was $133 million. Year-to-date the company has generated $390 million of free cash flow.
The company used $19 million to repurchase 440 thousand of its shares during the quarter and has $229 million of remaining authorization for future share repurchases. Year-to-date the company has repurchased $312 million of its shares and plans to buy a total of $350 million to $400 million by year- end.
Mailstream Solutions includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from the sale, rental, and financing of mail finishing, mail creation, shipping, and production mail equipment; supplies; support services; payment solutions; and mailing and customer communication software.
In the third quarter, Mailstream Solutions revenue increased nine percent to $1.0 billion and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) increased four percent to $297 million, when compared with the prior year.
Within Mailstream Solutions:
U.S. Mailing operations had third quarter revenue growth of five percent to $587 million and EBIT growth of three percent to $232 million. Growth in the quarter was driven by supplies and payment solutions as the meter base continued to transition to new digital technology and customers took advantage of our broad range of financial offerings. There was also good growth in the company's shipping solutions that allow businesses to determine the best and most cost effective way to ship packages and documents.
International Mailing revenue grew 17 percent to $253 million while EBIT increased by eight percent to $44 million. International Mailing revenue particularly benefited from growth in mailing systems equipment in the U K driven by the new requirement to pay postage based on the size and shape of the mail piece, as well as weight. Improved performance in Canada also contributed to revenue growth during the quarter. Transitional expenses related to the consolidation and outsourcing of administrative functions adversely affected the growth of International Mailing EBIT. We expect to start seeing the benefits of these initiatives in 2007.
Worldwide revenue for Production Mail grew 15 percent to $146 million and EBIT increased 43 percent to $14 million. In the U.S. revenue growth was favorably affected by continued strong placements of inserting systems and the company's advanced, high-speed metering system. The strong U.S. results were partially offset by lower sales in Europe.
Software revenue increased two percent to $50 million and EBIT declined 18 percent to $8 million. Revenue growth for the quarter was negatively affected by the comparison to the prior year, which included a large contract. EBIT was adversely impacted by investments in sales and marketing to position the business for longer-term growth.
 
Mailstream Services includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from facilities management contracts, reprographics, document management, and other value-added services for targeted customer markets; mail services operations, which include presort mail services and international outbound mail services; and marketing services.
For the quarter, Mailstream Services reported revenue growth of five percent to $397 million and EBIT growth of 32 percent to $35 million, versus the prior year.
Within Mailstream Services:
Management Services revenue increased one percent to $263 million for the quarter while EBIT increased 14 percent to $19 million, consistent with the company's strategy to focus on higher value service offerings and administrative cost reductions. The strong improvement in EBIT in the U.S. was partially offset by lower EBIT outside of the U.S.
Mail Services revenue grew nine percent to $91 million and EBIT grew 81 percent to $9 million. Revenue reflects growth in presort and international mail services, while EBIT benefited from the ongoing successful integration of acquired sites and increased operating efficiencies.
Marketing Services revenue increased 32 percent to $43 million and EBIT grew 42 percent to $6 million. Revenue growth benefited from the continued expansion of our marketing services programs.
Outlook
The company anticipates fourth quarter revenue growth in the range of seven to nine percent, which would result in full year revenue growth in the range of six to seven percent.
The company expects adjusted earnings per share in fourth quarter 2006 in the range of $0.76 to $0.78 and $2.68 to $2.70 for the full year. Earnings per share on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis is expected to be $0.71 to $0.75 for the fourth quarter and $2.49 to $2.53 for the full year. The earnings expectations for fourth quarter and the full year are further summarized as follows:
During the fourth quarter, the company expects to record a restructuring charge in the range of $.03 to $0.05 per diluted share, which will complete the charges associated with the restructuring program.
Mr. Critelli added, "The consistency of performance and enhanced visibility of our operating results after the sale of Capital Services allowed us to provide 2007 revenue and earnings guidance during our recent Investor Update meeting in September. This was the earliest we have ever provided guidance for an ensuing year."
The company reconfirmed that in 2007 it expects revenue growth of five to eight percent with earnings per share in the range of $2.90 to $2.98.
Management of Pitney Bowes will discuss the company's results in a conference call today at 5:00 p.m. EDT. Instructions for listening to the conference call over the WEB are available on the Investor Relations page of the company's web site at
http://www.pb.com/investorrelations
.
Pitney Bowes engineers the flow of communication. The company is a $5.6 billion global leader of mailstream solutions headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. For more information about the company, its products, services and solutions, visit
http://www.pitneybowes.com/
.
Pitney Bowes has presented in this earnings release diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis. Also, management has included a presentation of free cash flow on an adjusted basis and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Management believes this presentation provides a reasonable basis on which to present the adjusted financial information, and is provided to assist in investors' understanding of the company's results of operations. The company's financial results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
However, the earnings per share and free cash flow results are adjusted to exclude the impact of special items such as restructuring charges and write downs of assets, which materially impact the comparability of the company's results of operations. Restructuring charges often reflect retooling of the business in an episodic way. Although they represent actual expenses to the company, these episodic charges might mask the periodic income associated with our business had there not been a retooling. The use of free cash flow has limitations. GAAP cash flow has the advantage of including all cash available to the company after actual expenditures for all purposes. Free cash flow permits a shareholder insight into the amount of cash that management could have available for discretionary uses if it made different decisions about employing its cash. It adjusts for long-term commitments such as capital expenditures, as well as special items like cash used for restructuring charges and contributions to its pension funds. Of course, these items use cash that is not otherwise available to the company and are important expenditures. Management compensates for these limitations by using a combination of GAAP cash flow and free cash flow in doing its planning.
The adjusted financial information and certain financial measures such as EBIT are intended to be more indicative of the ongoing operations and economic results of the company. EBIT excludes interest payments and taxes, both cash items, and as a result, has the effect of showing a greater amount of earnings than net income. The company uses EBIT, in addition to net income, for purposes of measuring the performance of its unit management team. The interest rates and tax rates applicable to the company generally are outside the control of management, and it can be useful to judge performance independent of those variables.
The adjusted financial information should be viewed as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, the financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Further, our definition of this adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Pitney Bowes has provided in supplemental schedules attached for reference adjusted financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between the adjusted financial measures with the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, except with respect to our guidance because it would not be meaningful. Additional reconciliation of adjusted financial measures to financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP may be found at the company's web site
http://www.pb.com/investorrelations
in the Investor Relations section.
The information contained in this document is as of October 23, 2006. Quarterly results are preliminary and unaudited. This document contains "forward-looking statements" about our expected future business and financial performance. Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. For us forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about possible restructuring charges and our future guidance, including our expected revenue in the fourth quarter and full year 2006 and full year 2007, and our expected diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2006 and full year 2007. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: negative developments in economic conditions, including adverse impacts on customer demand, timely development and acceptance of new products or gaining product approval; successful entry into new markets; changes in interest rates; and changes in postal regulations, as more fully outlined in the company's 2005 Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the forward-looking statements are subject to change based on the timing and specific terms of any announced acquisitions or dispositions.
Note: Consolidated statements of income for the three months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, and consolidated balance sheets at September 30, 2006, June 30, 2006, and September 30, 2005, are attached.
 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
Note: The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal the totals above due to rounding.
 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
(Dollars in thousands)
 
Pitney Bowes Inc.
Reconciliation of Reported Consolidated Results to Adjusted Results
(Unaudited)
(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
Note: The sum of the earnings per share amounts may not equal the totals above due to rounding.
SOURCE: Pitney Bowes Inc.
CONTACT: Editorial - Sheryl Y. Battles, VP, Corp. Communications,
+1-203-351-6808; Financial - Charles F. McBride, VP, Investor Relations,
+1-203-351-6349
Web site:
http://www.pb.com/
 


