FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20071024163339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On October 23, 2007, pursuant to a First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), by and among Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Company"), The Bank of New York ("BONY") and Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank"), to the Indenture, dated as of February 14, 2005, by and between the Company and Citibank (the "Indenture"), Citibank resigned as Trustee under the Indenture, and BONY accepted its appointment as Trustee under the Indenture and assumed all of the rights, powers and duties of Citibank thereunder. BONY is a bank organized under the laws of the State of New York. The address of the corporate trust office of BONY is 101 Barclay Street, 8W, New York, New York 10286, Attn: Corporate Finance Unit.
A copy of the First Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the Form T-1 Statement of Eligibility (the "Statement of Eligibility") of BONY as Trustee under the Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 25.1. The Statement of Eligibility is filed with reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-3, No. 333-120525, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 16, 2004.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 24, 2007

 
     This FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this ""), dated as of October 23, 2007, by and among PITNEY BOWES INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a bank organized under the laws of the State of New York, as successor Trustee (the "") and CITIBANK, N.A., a national banking association, as resigning Trustee (the "").
First Supplemental Indenture
Company
Successor Trustee
Resigning Trustee
     A. The Company and the Resigning Trustee are parties to that certain Indenture, dated as of February 14, 2005 (the ""), relating to the issuance from time to time by the Company of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (the "").
Indenture
Securities
     B. Section 6.08 of the Indenture provides that the Trustee may resign at any time with respect to Securities of one or more Series by so notifying the Company and that the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee upon the resignation of such resigning Trustee.
     C. Pursuant to Section 6.08 of the Indenture, the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a resolution to appoint the Successor Trustee.
     D. Section 8.01 of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may from time to time without the consent of any Holder enter an indenture supplemental to the Indenture to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities.
     E. The Resigning Trustee desires to resign as Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar, the Company desires to appoint the Successor Trustee as successor Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar, and the Successor Trustee desires to accept such appointments.
     F. All conditions and requirements of the Indenture necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants and agreements contained herein, it is mutually agreed for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders from time to time of the Securities or of any Series thereof as follows.
     SECTION 1.1 . Pursuant to Section 6.08 of the Indenture, the Resigning Trustee hereby resigns as Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar under the Indenture with respect to all Series of Securities and the Successor Trustee hereby accepts its appointment as successor Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar, as set forth in more detail in Section 3.2 hereof, such resignation and appointment to become effective as of the date hereof.
Resignation
 
     SECTION 1.2 . The Resigning Trustee shall promptly transfer all of the funds and property held by it as Trustee to the Successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 6.07 of the Indenture.
Delivery of Funds and Property
     SECTION 2.1 . The Company hereby accepts and confirms the resignation and removal of the Resigning Trustee as Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar with respect to all Series of Securities, such resignation and removal to become effective as provided in Section 1.1 hereof. The Company hereby appoints the Successor Trustee as successor Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar under the Indenture with respect to all Series of Securities to succeed to the Resigning Trustee, and hereby vests the Successor Trustee with all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar under the Indenture.
Acceptance of Resignation and Appointment
     SECTION 3.1 . The Successor Trustee hereby represents and warrants to the Company that the Successor Trustee is qualified and eligible to act as Trustee pursuant to the terms of the Indenture.
Qualification
     SECTION 3.2 . The Successor Trustee hereby accepts its appointment as Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar under the Indenture with respect to all Series of Securities and is hereby vested with all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee, Paying Agent and Security Registrar.
Acceptance of Appointment
     SECTION 3.3 . The Successor Trustee hereby agrees to mail a notice of its succession to all Securityholders in accordance with Section 6.08 of the Indenture.
Notice to Securityholders
     SECTION 4.1 . Capitalized terms used but not defined in this First Supplemental Indenture shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Indenture.
Definitions
     SECTION 4.2 . The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Confirmation of Indenture
     SECTION 4.3 . This First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be a contract under the internal laws of the State of New York (other than principles of law that would apply the law of another jurisdiction), and for all purposes shall be construed and enforced in accordance with and governed by the laws of said State.
New York Law to Govern
 
     SECTION 4.4 . This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first above written.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Act, the Trustee, The Bank of New York, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York, has duly caused this statement of eligibility to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, all in The City of New York, and State of New York, on the 23rd day of October, 2007.
 
EXHIBIT 7
 
 
a member of the Federal Reserve System, at the close of business June 30, 2007, published in accordance with a call made by the Federal Reserve Bank of this District pursuant to the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act.
 
 
     I, Thomas P. Gibbons, Chief Financial Officer of the above-named bank do hereby declare that this Report of Condition is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Thomas P. Gibbons, Chief Financial Officer
     We, the undersigned directors, attest to the correctness of this statement of resources and liabilities. We declare that it has been examined by us, and to the best of our knowledge and belief has been prepared in conformance with the instructions and is true and correct.
 
 


