FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20070420142244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
            
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
            
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
            
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
            
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01.      OTHER EVENTS
On April 19, 2007, Pitney Bowes Inc. issued a press release announcing the completion of its acquisition of MapInfo Corporation, now PB MapInfo Corporation. The press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
          
(c)
Exhibits
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1 Press Release
 
STAMFORD, Conn., April 19, 2007  Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) announced today that it has successfully completed the acquisition of MapInfo Corporation (NASDAQ: MAPS) at a price of $20.25 net per share in cash.
          
Today, Magellan Acquisition Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pitney Bowes, merged with and into MapInfo. In connection with the merger, MapInfo has changed its name to PB MapInfo Corporation. The merger followed the successful completion by Magellan Acquisition Corp. of a tender offer for all outstanding shares of MapInfo at $20.25 net per share in cash which was completed at 12:00 Midnight, New York City time, on April 18, 2007. As a result of the merger, all outstanding shares of MapInfo, other than those held by holders who demand appraisal rights, have been converted into the right to receive $20.25 in cash, without interest (the same price paid in the tender offer). MapInfo stockholders whose shares were not validly tendered and accepted for payment in the tender offer will receive a Notice of Merger and a Letter of Transmittal that will instruct them on how to receive the merger consideration, and a Notice of Appraisal Rights under the Delaware General Corporation Law. In order to accomplish the merger as a "short-form" merger, Magellan Acquisition Corp. exercised a "top-up" option pursuant to the merger agreement which permitted it to purchase a limited number of additional shares directly from MapInfo for $20.25 per share (the same purchase price paid in the offer).
          
Pitney Bowes provides the world's most comprehensive suite of mailstream software, hardware, services and solutions to help companies manage their flow of mail, documents and packages to improve communication. Pitney Bowes, with $5.7 billion in annual revenue, takes an all-inclusive view of its customers' operations, helping organizations of all sizes enjoy the competitive advantage that comes from an optimized mailstream. The company's 87 years of technological leadership have produced many major mailstream innovations, and it is consistently on the Intellectual Property Owners Association's list of top U.S. patent holders. With approximately 35,000 employees worldwide, Pitney Bowes serves more than 2 million businesses through direct and dealer operations. More information about the company can be found at .
www.pb.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates," and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including, the ability of Pitney Bowes to successfully integrate MapInfo's operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; and other factors described in Pitney Bowes' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and in MapInfo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006, each of which has been filed with the SEC. Except as otherwise required by law, Pitney Bowes and MapInfo disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.


