FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20080415115253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On April 14, 2008, Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Separation Agreement and General Release with Bruce P. Nolop (the "Separation Agreement"), the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Nolop stepped down from his position as the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on March 1, 2008, but remained as an employee of the Company until April 15, 2008. For purposes of the Separation Agreement, the separation date is April 16, 2008 (the Separation Date). His departure was announced in a press release issued on February 13, 2008, which was included in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on that date. Set forth below is a summary of the material terms of the Agreement.
Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Nolop continued to receive his current salary and participate in the Company's benefit plans as an active employee of the Company until the Separation Date.
The Separation Agreement provides that Mr. Nolop will receive base severance in the amount of $99,139.42 and enhanced severance in the amount of $2,530,044.51. Of that amount, $736,903.93 will be paid in a lump sum and the remainder will be aggregated with his base severance and will be paid in equal installments on regular paydays over a period beginning six months after Mr. Nolops Separation Date and ending on April 14, 2010. (The period from the Separation Date to April 14, 2010 is defined in the Severance Agreement as the Severance Period). In accordance with the terms of the Pitney Bowes Pension Plan and the Pitney Bowes Pension Restoration Plan, Mr. Nolop is eligible for early retirement effective January 10, 2010. Mr. Nolops base severance and $2,238,669.51 of his enhanced severance will be used as pensionable earnings in calculating his pension benefit under the Pitney Bowes Pension Plan and Pitney Bowes Pension Restoration Plan.
The benefits set forth in the Separation Agreement include: (i) a prorated payout of outstanding Cash Incentive Units based on his active service; (ii) professional financial counseling and tax preparation services for 24 months up to an amount not to exceed $21,000 per calendar year; (iii) up to $40,000 in transitional support expenses for a period not to exceed six months; and (iv) life insurance coverage equal to one year of his base salary for the full term of his Severance Period. Additionally, Mr. Nolop and his eligible dependents may, at Mr. Nolop's option, continue to participate in the Company's group medical and dental plans during the Severance Period on the same terms available from time to time to Company employees. Mr. Nolop will also be eligible to participate in benefit plans for retirees, including medical, prescription drug and/or dental coverage, after his Severance Period ends.
Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Nolop will forfeit (i) all stock option grants that are not at least partially vested as of April 16, 2008 and (ii) all outstanding unvested Restricted Stock Awards as of April 16, 2008. Mr. Nolop will retain his employee stock options that are fully or partially vested as of April 16, 2008, which options pursuant to the plan terms will continue to vest until January 10, 2010 when all outstanding unvested stock options will vest and remain
exercisable until the award expiration date set forth in the respective award agreement. Additionally, the Separation Agreement provides that Mr. Nolop will be bound by a confidentiality provision. Mr. Nolop is also bound by a covenant not to compete with the Company for one year following the Separation Date and a non-solicitation provision for two years following the Separation Date.
Mr. Nolop may revoke his execution of the Separation Agreement at any time within seven days from the date the agreement is executed. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Nolop has released and waived any claims that he might have against the Company.
This summary of the Separation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Separation Agreement which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference hereto.
ITEM 9.01.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)      Exhibits
10.1           Separation Agreement and General Release dated April 14, 2008 by and between Pitney Bowes Inc. and Bruce P. Nolop.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Bruce P. Nolop
1170 Fifth Avenue
New York, New York 10029-6527
Dear Bruce:
This letter agreement (the Agreement) is by and between you and Pitney Bowes Inc. and/or its parent, subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, related business entities, and with respect to each of them, their predecessors, successors, and assigns, employee benefit plans or funds, and with respect to each such entity, all of its or their past, present and/or future directors, officers, attorneys, fiduciaries, representatives, shareholders, agents, employees, heirs, personal representatives, benefit plans, trustees, administrators and assigns, whether acting on behalf of a company entity or in their individual capacities (collectively the Company Entities). Your Benefit Information, regardless of whether you sign this Agreement, is provided in a separate document.
Because of the subject of this letter, its tone necessarily is formal. However, on behalf of the Company Entities, I want to express our sincere appreciation for the contributions you have made during your employment. I also want to convey to you our best wishes for your future.
This Agreement supersedes any and all previous agreements, either signed or unsigned, except that you specifically agree to continue to be bound by any patent or intellectual property provisions; any restrictive covenant provisions regarding, without limitation, non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disclosure; any non-disparagement provisions; and any Proprietary Interest Protection Agreement, all of which shall specifically survive and continue in full force and effect.
1.    
SEPARATION DATE
:
Your last day of work for Pitney Bowes Inc. (the Company) will be
April 15, 2008
. Your Separation Date will be
April 16, 2008.
you incur by reason of such cooperation, including any loss of income. Pitney Bowes will make reasonable efforts to minimize any interruption to your life in connection with your cooperation in such matters as provided for in this paragraph.
13.   
POST EMPLOYMENT OBLIGATIONS:
 
 
 
 
I have read this SEPARATION AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE and I understand all of its terms. I enter into and sign this AGREEMENT knowingly and voluntarily, with full knowledge of what it means.
 
 
 
 
 
On this day of , before me personally came
     14th                         
       April           
   2008         
                         Bruce P. Nolop                              
to me known and known to me to be the individual described in, and who executed the foregoing Separation Agreement and General Release, and duly acknowledged to me that he executed the same.
 
 
 
 


