FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20080214102628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
On February 11, 2008, the Board of Directors of Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Board") elected Michael Monahan, the company's Executive Vice President and President, Mailing Solutions and Services, to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective March 1, 2008.
Mr. Monahan, 47, has been with the company since 1988 and has served as the Executive Vice President and President, Mailing Solutions and Services since December 15, 2005. Mr. Monahan joined Pitney Bowes in 1988 from PricewaterhouseCoopers. He has held a variety of senior financial positions at Pitney Bowes in accounting, investor relations, and corporate development and as chief financial officer for a business unit. In 2002 he assumed general management responsibility for strategy and product development for the core mailing business. While in this role, he led the expansion of the mailing business into several growth areas, most significantly mailing services and marketing services. In May of 2007 Mr. Monahan took on management of the Mailstream Solutions and Services - Americas business. This includes North and South American operations for customers in the company's core mailing business.
Mr. Monahan will report to Murray D. Martin, the company's President and Chief Executive Officer, and succeeds Bruce P. Nolop who will pursue an executive position outside of the company following a transition period. Mr. Nolop served as Pitney Bowes' Chief Financial Officer since January 10, 2000.
On February 10, 2008, the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board approved 2008 compensation arrangements for Mr. Monahan. In connection with Mr. Monahan's promotion to Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Monahan's base salary was set, effective March 1, 2008, at $540,000, and his target annual incentive under the company's Key Employee Incentive Plan was set at 75% of base salary. Annual incentive payments are subject to the company first achieving a threshold income from continuing operations objective in accordance with the deductibility requirements under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code").
In addition, Mr. Monahan was awarded an annual long-term incentive grant with a total value of approximately $1,000,000. As part of this long-term incentive grant, Mr. Monahan was awarded 153,846 stock options to purchase common stock of the company under the Pitney Bowes 2007 Stock Plan at an exercise price of $36.96 per share, the closing price of the company's common stock on February 11, 2008 (the "Grant Date Fair Market Value"). The stock options will generally vest and become exercisable in equal 25% increments over four years after the date of grant.
Also as part of his long-term incentive grant, Mr. Monahan was granted Cash Incentive Units (CIUs) for the 2008-2010 Performance Period with a target value of $500,000, the ultimate value of which will be determined based on the company's achievement of goals established for the three-year performance period. Payments for CIUs are subject to the company first achieving a
threshold Income From Continuing Operations objective, consistent with the requirements for deductibility under Section 162(m) of the Code. The company has not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Monahan.
No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Monahan and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Monahan was selected as an officer of the company. There is no family relationship between any director, executive officer, or person nominated or chosen by the company to become a director or executive officer of the company and Mr. Monahan. Mr. Monahan is not a director of any company with a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or subject to the requirements of Section 15(d) of such Act or any company registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
In addition, since the beginning of the company's last fiscal year, there has been no transaction (or series of transactions), and there is no currently proposed transaction (or series of transactions), to which the company or any of its subsidiaries was or is to be a party, in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which Mr. Monahan or any member of his immediate family had or will have a direct or indirect material interest.
On February 13, 2008, the company issued a press release relating to the above matters. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
     
STAMFORD, Conn., February 13, 2008 -- Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) today announced key appointments, effective March 1, to its senior management team to position the company for its next stage of growth. Michael Monahan, currently Executive Vice President and President, Mailstream Solutions and Services Americas, has been named EVP and Chief Financial Officer. Leslie Abi-Karam, Executive Vice President and President, Document Messaging Technologies has been named to a newly-created position, EVP and President, Mailing Solutions Management, which includes responsibility for the production mail business, as well as mailstream solutions and services formerly led by Mr. Monahan.
     
"Mike Monahan and Leslie Abi-Karam are proven leaders who will be integral in driving forward Pitney Bowes' strategy to deliver profitable growth," said Murray Martin, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Mike brings a unique combination of financial and operational expertise, including 18 years of financial experience with both PricewaterhouseCoopers and Pitney Bowes and, more recently, a strong track record in leading our largest business unit. His deep knowledge of the company, financial acumen and operational focus will be invaluable as he takes on this critical role.
     
"Over the course of her career, Leslie has shown time and time again that she knows how to build and transform businesses, bringing together a strong focus on the customer while driving both top and bottom line growth. Most recently, she has led our Document Messaging Technologies unit to create a global portfolio of end-to-end marketing services, software and hardware solutions. We look forward to her continued contributions in this significant new role," said Mr. Martin.
     
Mr. Monahan succeeds Bruce Nolop, who will pursue a senior executive position outside of the company, following a transition period. "We extend our sincere thanks to Bruce for his many valuable contributions over the years. Bruce was a key member of the team that transformed Pitney Bowes to a broad-based mailstream technology company and was the architect of our acquisition strategy. He built a first-class financial organization by strengthening our treasury, audit, investor relations, corporate development and tax functions, and partnered with the business units in driving results."
 
said Mr. Martin. "Pitney Bowes is a much stronger company because of Bruce's contributions."
     
With today's appointments, the company has consolidated all of its US mailing products and services into an approximately $3.5 billion organization under Ms. Abi-Karam. The company's Software and Marketing Services segments will now report directly to the CEO. The International, Management Services, and Global Financial Services segments, as well as corporate functions, currently report to the CEO and will continue to do so.
     
In his current position, Mr. Monahan has been responsible for the company's largest business unit, representing annual revenues of approximately $3 billion. In this capacity, he has directed strategy and global product development for the core mailing business, where he developed breakthrough solutions such as integrated web-based shipping solutions and postal kiosks, and expanded the range of applications for internet postage. Mr. Monahan also led the expansion into several growth areas, most significantly mail services and marketing services, which today contribute more than $600 million in incremental revenue, and, under his leadership, Pitney Bowes established itself as a market leader in the US domestic presort business and international outbound mail services. Mr. Monahan joined Pitney Bowes in 1988 from PricewaterhouseCoopers as a CPA and held a variety of senior financial positions at Pitney Bowes in accounting, investor relations, and corporate development and as CFO of a business unit.
     
Ms. Abi-Karam has led the approximately $1 billion Document Messaging Technologies business since 2002, where she has transformed DMT from a hardware-centric operation to a business that encompasses both digital and physical communications. DMT has tripled its revenue and EBIT under her leadership. Ms. Abi-Karam has also led the expansion of the company's software business with its two largest acquisitions to date, Group 1 Software and MapInfo. Previously, as a key executive in the company's core mailing business, she oversaw the largest global launch of products in Pitney Bowes' history. She began her career at Pitney Bowes in 1984 as an engineer and went on to distinguish herself in a variety of operational roles in manufacturing, service and product management.
About Pitney Bowes
     
Pitney Bowes is a mailstream technology company that helps organizations manage the flow of information, mail, documents, and packages. Our 35,000 employees deliver technology, service, and innovation to more than two million customers worldwide. The company was founded in 1920 and annual revenues now total $6.1 billion. More information is available at
www.pb.com
.


