FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20080506162028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
May 6, 2008 (May 6, 2008)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Pitney Bowes Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Address of principal executive offices)
World Headquarters
1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
(203) 356-5000
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Not Applicable
(see General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Disclosure of "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On May 6, 2008, the registrant issued a press release setting forth its financial results, including consolidated statements of income, supplemental information, and a reconciliation of reported results to adjusted results for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Pitney Bowes Announces First Quarter Results for 2008
Revenue growth of 11%
Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $0.66
GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.56
Strong free cash flow of $197 million and cash from operations of $248 million
Company increases annual cash flow guidance to $625 - $700 million, and reaffirms guidance of $2.80 to $2.90 for adjusted earnings per diluted share for 2008
STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) today reported first quarter 2008 financial results.
Revenue increased 11 percent to $1.6 billion and adjusted income from continuing operations was $140 million. Adjusted income for the quarter excludes charges related to restructuring initiatives that the company announced on November 15, 2007 to reduce costs, accelerate operational improvements and transition its product line; and a tax adjustment in the UK. On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, the company reported net income from continuing operations of $123 million.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the first quarter was $0.66, which compares with $0.66 for the prior year. On a GAAP basis, the company reported earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.58 for the quarter, compared with $0.66 per diluted share for the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.56 including discontinued operations, compared with $0.65 the prior year.
The companys results for the quarter are further summarized in the table below:
Free cash flow for the quarter was $197 million, while cash from operations was $248 million for the first quarter.
During the quarter, the company used $74 million of cash for dividends and $180 million to buy back 5 million of its shares. The remaining authorization for future share repurchases was $227 million at the end of the first quarter.
Commenting on the quarter, President and CEO Murray D. Martin noted, We are encouraged by our ability to achieve a solid performance despite the difficult economic environment. Today more than ever, businesses of all sizes are looking for ways to connect information, offerings, and goods with their existing and potential customers in a cost efficient manner. Our diverse portfolio of mail and document management solutions assists businesses in generating revenue, reducing costs, and enhancing the impact of their customer communications through targeting and customization.
Business Segment Results
includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from the sale, rental, and financing of mail finishing, mail creation, shipping, and production mail equipment; supplies; mailing and multi-vendor support services; payment solutions; and mailing, customer communication, and location intelligence software.
Mailstream Solutions
In the first quarter, Mailstream Solutions revenue increased 9 percent to $1.1 billion while earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) declined 4 percent to $289 million, when compared with the prior year.
Within Mailstream Solutions:
As anticipated, revenue and EBIT for the quarter were adversely affected by lower equipment sales due to the postal rate case in the first half of last year, the wind-down of meter migration, and current weak economic conditions. As a result, the segments revenue declined 5 percent to $553 million and EBIT declined 8 percent to $224 million. The EBIT margin was hurt by lower revenue growth and the mix of business when compared with 2007, which included the sale of higher margin mailing equipment upgrade kits that enabled mailers to comply with the change in postage rates.
U.S. Mailings
revenue grew 20 percent to $308 million and EBIT increased 8 percent to $50 million. The segments revenue grew 6 percent when compared with the prior year, excluding the effects of currency and acquisitions. Revenue benefited by about 13 percent from favorable currency translation and by about 1 percent from acquisitions. EBIT margin comparisons with the prior year were adversely affected by the mix of business. However, the EBIT margin improved by 120 basis points when compared with the fourth quarter 2007 due to improved margin in France resulting from a postal rate change.
International Mailings
Worldwide revenue for grew 5 percent to $135 million and EBIT increased 25 percent to $9 million. Favorable currency translation contributed about 5 percent to revenue growth. Revenue benefited from higher equipment placements in the U.K., Asia, and Canada; however, there were lower equipment sales in the U.S. and parts of Europe. The EBIT margin improved due to a higher gross margin and lower administrative costs.
Production Mail
revenue increased 159 percent to $100 million and EBIT increased 114 percent to $7 million. Results for the quarter were driven by broad-based demand for location intelligence and customer communication software solutions both within and outside of the U.S. Revenue grew 46 percent when compared with the prior year, excluding currency and acquisitions. Acquisitions, including MapInfo, contributed 105 percent to revenue growth and favorable currency translation contributed about 8 percent. The 1 percent decline in EBIT margin was due primarily to acquisition costs associated with MapInfo.
Software
includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from facilities management contracts, reprographics, document management, and other value-added services for targeted customer markets; mail services operations, which include presort mail services and cross-border mail services; and marketing services.
Mailstream Services
For the quarter, Mailstream Services reported revenue growth of 17 percent to $478 million, and EBIT increased 17 percent to $39 million versus the prior year.
Within Mailstream Services:
revenue increased 11 percent to $303 million for the quarter while EBIT decreased 10 percent to $19 million. The segments revenue growth for the quarter benefited from last years acquisition of a French-based business services company, which added about 9 percent to growth, and favorable currency translation, which added about 3 percent to growth. The segments revenue and EBIT were adversely affected by continued weakness in U.S. legal solutions and slower business in government solutions. Acquisition costs also negatively impacted EBIT.
Management Services
The company is nearing conclusion of its evaluation of the strategic options for its U.S. Management Services operations and expects to make a statement by the end of the second quarter.
revenue grew 25 percent to $125 million and EBIT grew 56 percent to $18 million. Revenue growth was driven by both presort and cross-border mail services, while EBIT benefited from operating leverage from the increase in mail volume processed and increased operating efficiencies. Acquisitions added about 3 percent to revenue growth.
Mail Services
revenue increased 42 percent to $50 million as the segments results benefited from the continued expansion of marketing services programs and acquisitions during the year, which added about 11 percent to revenue growth. EBIT margin more than doubled to 4 percent of revenue versus the prior year.
Marketing Services
2008 Guidance
Based upon first quarter results, the company increased full-year free cash flow guidance to a range of $625 to $700 million and reaffirmed 2008 expected revenue growth of 6 to 9 percent, and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.80 to $2.90.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share excludes charges related to the initiatives that the company announced on November 15, 2007 to reduce costs, accelerate improvements in operational efficiency, and transition its product line. Adjusted earnings per diluted share also excludes a tax adjustment associated with a UK leasing program that ended in 2002. The company anticipates that the restructuring and asset impairment charges in 2008 in connection with the transition initiatives will be in the range of $40 million to $100 million ($0.12 to $0.30 per diluted share).
On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $2.47 to $2.75.
The 2008 earnings guidance is summarized in the table below.
Management of Pitney Bowes will discuss the companys results in a broadcast over the Internet today at 5:00 p.m. EST. Instructions for listening to the earnings results via the Web are available on the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at .
www.pb.com/investorrelations
Pitney Bowes engineers the flow of communication. The company is a $6.3 billion global leader of mailstream solutions headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. For more information about the company, its products, services and solutions, visit .
www.pitneybowes.com
Pitney Bowes has presented in this earnings release diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis. Also, management has included a presentation of free cash flow on an adjusted basis, adjusted income from continuing operations, and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Management believes this presentation provides a reasonable basis on which to present the adjusted financial information, and is provided to assist in investors' understanding of the company's results of operations. The company's financial results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, earnings per share, income from continuing operations, and free cash flow results are adjusted to exclude the impact of special items such as transition initiatives, restructuring charges, accounting adjustments and write downs of assets, which materially impact the comparability of the company's results of operations.
Although transition initiatives and restructuring charges represent actual expenses to the company, these charges might mask the periodic income and financial and operating trends associated with our business. The use of free cash flow has limitations. GAAP cash flow has the advantage of including all cash available to the company after actual expenditures for all purposes. Free cash flow permits a shareholder insight into the amount of cash that management could have available for discretionary uses if it made different decisions about employing its cash. It adjusts for long-term commitments such as capital expenditures, as well as special items like cash used for restructuring charges, unusual tax payments and contributions to its pension funds. Of course, these items use cash that is not otherwise available to the company and are important expenditures. Management compensates for these limitations by using a combination of GAAP cash flow and free cash flow in doing its planning.
The adjusted financial information and certain financial measures such as EBIT are intended to be more indicative of the ongoing operations and economic results of the company. EBIT excludes interest payments and taxes, both cash expenses to the company, and as a result, has the effect of showing a greater amount of earnings than net income. The company uses EBIT, in addition to net income and income from continuing operations, for purposes of measuring the performance of its unit management team. The interest rates and tax rates applicable to the company generally are outside the control of management, and it can be useful to judge performance independent of those variables.
The adjusted financial information should be viewed as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, the financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Further, our definition of this adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Pitney Bowes has provided in supplemental schedules attached for reference adjusted financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between the adjusted financial measures with the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, except with respect to our guidance because it would not be meaningful. Additional reconciliation of adjusted financial measures to financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP may be found at the company's web site in the Investor Relations section.
www.pb.com/investorrelations
The information contained in this document is as of March 31, 2008.
Quarterly results are preliminary and unaudited.
This document contains forward-looking statements about our expected future business and financial performance.
Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, "expect," "anticipate," intend, and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. For us forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about possible restructuring charges and our future guidance, including our expected revenue, and our expected diluted earnings per share for the full year 2008. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: negative developments in economic conditions, including adverse impacts on customer demand, timely development and acceptance of new products or gaining product approval; successful entry into new markets; changes in interest rates; and changes in postal regulations, as more fully outlined in the company's 2007 Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the forward-looking statements are subject to change based on the timing and specific terms of any announced acquisitions or dispositions.
Note: Consolidated statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, are attached.
CONTACT: Pitney Bowes Inc. Editorial  Sheryl Y. Battles, VP, Corp. Communications 203-351-6808 or Financial  Charles F. McBride, VP, Investor Relations 203-351-6349
www.pitneybowes.com


