FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20080804163030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
August 4, 2008 (August 4, 2008)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Pitney Bowes Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Address of principal executive offices) (Registrants telephone number, including area code) (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
World Headquarters 1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(203) 356-5000
Not Applicable
(see General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Disclosure of "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On August 4, 2008, the registrant issued a press release setting forth its financial results, including consolidated statements of income, supplemental information, and a reconciliation of reported results to adjusted results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at June 30 and March 31, 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Pitney Bowes Announces Second Quarter Results for 2008
STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) today reported second quarter 2008 financial results.
Revenue increased 3 percent to $1.6 billion and adjusted income from continuing operations was $144 million. Adjusted income for the quarter excludes charges related to restructuring initiatives that the company announced on November 15, 2007 to reduce costs, accelerate operational improvements and transition its product line. On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, the company reported income from continuing operations of $131 million and net income of $128.5 million.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the second quarter was $0.69, which compares with $0.71 for the prior year, when the company benefited from sales of equipment that helped customers comply with the provisions of the U.S. Postal Service rate case, which requires that postage be based on shape as well as weight. On a GAAP basis, the company reported earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.63 for the quarter, compared with $0.69 per diluted share for the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.61 including discontinued operations, compared with $0.68 in the prior year.
The companys results for the quarter are further summarized in the table below:
Free cash flow for the quarter was $205 million, while cash from operations was $213 million. Year-to-date, free cash flow was $401 million, while cash from operations was $461 million.
During the quarter, the company used $73 million of cash for dividends and $92 million to buy back 2.6 million of its shares. The remaining authorization for future share repurchases was $134 million at the end of the second quarter. Year-to-date, the company has returned $419 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Commenting on the companys performance, President and CEO Murray D. Martin noted, We are pleased that we remain on target to deliver full-year financial results consistent with our original guidance despite difficult comparisons for the first half of the year, and the challenging economic environment. We continue to experience strengthening demand in key markets outside of the U.S. for a wide range of our solutions and services that help businesses target, personalize, produce and distribute relevant communications to their customers. As we did in the first quarter, we are pleased to again increase our annual free cash flow guidance based on the year-to-date strong generation of cash, and our continued focus on working capital and expense management for the balance of the year.
At the end of the quarter we concluded our strategic review of the U.S. Management Services operations and decided to retain and grow this business. During the review, we identified and began to execute actions to enhance Management Services profitability and long-term performance. We have already begun to see the benefits of these actions reflected in the operations improving margins.
Business Segment Results
includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from the sale, rental, and financing of mail finishing, mail creation, shipping, and production mail equipment; supplies; mailing and multi-vendor support services; payment solutions; and mailing, customer communication, and location intelligence software.
Mailstream Solutions
In the second quarter, Mailstream Solutions revenue declined 1 percent to $1.1 billion compared with the prior year, and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) declined 10 percent to $294 million.
Within Mailstream Solutions:
As anticipated, weaker revenue and unfavorable EBIT comparisons for the quarter reflected higher equipment sales in the prior year due to the 2007 postal rate case. This quarters results were also impacted by weak economic conditions and the slowing of the U.S. Postal Services mandated meter technology transition, which ends in December. The segments revenue declined 14 percent to $551 million due primarily to the decline in higher margin equipment sales related to shape-based pricing, resulting in a 16 percent EBIT decline to $221 million.
U.S. Mailings
revenue grew 20 percent to $302 million and EBIT increased 41 percent to $51 million. The segments revenue grew 6 percent, excluding the effects of currency and acquisitions. Revenue growth benefited by about 12 percent from favorable currency translation and by about 1 percent from acquisitions. Revenue growth also benefited from increased equipment sales in the UK and France, and continued good growth in supplies. EBIT margin comparisons with the prior year were favorably affected by an improving cost structure in Europe and a legal settlement during the quarter which increased margins by about 250 basis points.
International Mailings
Worldwide revenue for grew 3 percent to $149 million while EBIT decreased 18 percent to $15 million. Favorable currency translation contributed about 5 percent to revenue growth. The revenue benefits from higher equipment placements in the UK and France were offset by lower equipment sales in the U.S. and parts of Europe. The EBIT margin declined primarily due to favorable net legal recoveries in Europe last year, which improved margins by about 200 basis points and a change in the geographic mix of business this year.
Production Mail
revenue increased 23 percent to $102 million, while EBIT decreased 27 percent to $6 million. Software sales grew at a double-digit pace outside of the U.S., but declined within the U.S. as a result of weak economic conditions, causing some large enterprise accounts to defer their purchase decisions. Revenue grew 3 percent, excluding the effects of currency and acquisitions. Acquisitions, including MapInfo, contributed 16 percent to revenue growth and favorable currency translation contributed about 4 percent. The decline in EBIT margin was due to the timing of the acquisition of MapInfo in mid-April 2007, product mix, and the planned global investment in sales, marketing and research and development.
Software
includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from facilities management contracts, reprographics, document management, and other value-added services for targeted customer markets; mail services operations, which include presort mail services and international mail services; and marketing services.
Mailstream Services
For the quarter, Mailstream Services reported revenue growth of 14 percent to $484 million, and an EBIT increase of 37 percent to $38 million versus the prior year.
Within Mailstream Services:
revenue increased 9 percent to $300 million for the quarter while EBIT increased 14 percent to $18 million. The segments revenue growth for the quarter benefited from last years acquisition of a French business services company, which added about 9 percent to revenue growth, and favorable currency translation, which added about 3 percent to revenue growth. The segments revenue was further affected by lower transaction volumes for some U.S. financial services customers. EBIT margin in the segment benefited from improvements in the U.S., where the company focused on reducing costs, particularly through several productivity initiatives. The margin benefits from the U.S. actions were partially offset by the costs associated with the acquisition in France.
Management Services
During its recently concluded strategic review of the U.S. Management Services operations, the company identified several opportunities to drive future growth and enhance profitability by deploying new solutions, bringing greater technology to traditional mail and print management services, and driving further integration of end-to-end solutions that incorporate more of the full suite of Pitney Bowes capabilities.
revenue grew 23 percent to $135 million and EBIT grew 46 percent to $16 million. Revenue growth was driven by both presort and international mail services. EBIT benefited from operating leverage from the increase in mail volume processed and increased operating efficiencies. Acquisitions added about 8 percent to revenue growth.
Mail Services
revenue increased 21 percent to $48 million. The segments results benefited from the continued expansion of marketing services programs, and acquisitions which added about 11 percent to revenue growth. The segments EBIT margin improved by approximately 4 percentage points versus the prior year as a result of the companys phased exit from the motor vehicle registration services program.
Marketing Services
2008 Guidance
Based upon the first half-year results and the outlook for the remainder of the year, the company increased full-year free cash flow guidance to a range of $675 to $750 million and reaffirmed 2008 expected revenue growth of 6 to 9 percent, and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $2.80 to $2.90.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share excludes charges related to the initiatives that the company announced on November 15, 2007 to reduce costs, accelerate improvements in operational efficiency, and transition its product line. Adjusted earnings per diluted share also excludes a first quarter tax adjustment associated with a UK leasing program that ended in 2002. The company anticipates that the restructuring and asset impairment charges in 2008 in connection with the transition initiatives will be in the range of $50 million to $100 million ($0.15 to $0.30 per diluted share).
On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $2.47 to $2.72.
The 2008 earnings guidance is summarized in the table below.
Management of Pitney Bowes will discuss the companys results in a broadcast over the Internet today at 5:00 p.m. EST. Instructions for listening to the earnings results via the Web are available on the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at .
www.pb.com/investorrelations
Pitney Bowes engineers the flow of communication. The company is a $6.3 billion global leader of mailstream solutions headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. For more information about the company, its products, services and solutions, visit .
www.pitneybowes.com
Pitney Bowes has presented in this earnings release diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis. Also, management has included a presentation of free cash flow on an adjusted basis, adjusted income from continuing operations, and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Management believes this presentation provides a reasonable basis on which to present the adjusted financial information, and is provided to assist in investors' understanding of the company's results of operations. The company's financial results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, earnings per share, income from continuing operations, and free cash flow results are adjusted to exclude the impact of special items such as transition initiatives, restructuring charges, accounting adjustments and write downs of assets, which materially impact the comparability of the company's results of operations.
Although transition initiatives and restructuring charges represent actual expenses to the company, these charges might mask the periodic income and financial and operating trends associated with our business. The use of free cash flow has limitations. GAAP cash flow has the advantage of including all cash available to the company after actual expenditures for all purposes. Free cash flow permits a shareholder insight into the amount of cash that management could have available for discretionary uses if it made different decisions about employing its cash. It adjusts for long-term commitments such as capital expenditures, as well as special items like cash used for restructuring charges, unusual tax payments and contributions to its pension funds. Of course, these items use cash that is not otherwise available to the company and are important expenditures. Management compensates for these limitations by using a combination of GAAP cash flow and free cash flow in doing its planning.
The adjusted financial information and certain financial measures such as EBIT are intended to be more indicative of the ongoing operations and economic results of the company. EBIT excludes interest payments and taxes, both cash expenses to the company, and as a result, has the effect of showing a greater amount of earnings than net income. The company uses EBIT, in addition to net income and income from continuing operations, for purposes of measuring the performance of its unit management team. The interest rates and tax rates applicable to the company generally are outside the control of management, and it can be useful to judge performance independent of those variables.
The adjusted financial information should be viewed as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, the financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Further, our definition of this adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Pitney Bowes has provided in supplemental schedules attached for reference adjusted financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between the adjusted financial measures with the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, except with respect to our guidance because it would not be meaningful. Additional reconciliation of adjusted financial measures to financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP may be found at the company's web site in the Investor Relations section.
www.pb.com/investorrelations
The information contained in this document is as of June 30, 2008.
Quarterly results are preliminary and unaudited.
This document contains forward-looking statements about our expected future business and financial performance.
Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, "expect," "anticipate," intend, and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. For us forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about possible restructuring charges and our future guidance, including our expected revenue, and our expected diluted earnings per share for the full year 2008. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: negative developments in economic conditions, including adverse impacts on customer demand, timely development and acceptance of new products or gaining product approval; successful entry into new markets; changes in interest rates; and changes in postal regulations, as more fully outlined in the company's 2007 Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the forward-looking statements are subject to change based on the timing and specific terms of any announced acquisitions or dispositions.
Note: Consolidated statements of income; revenue and EBIT by business segment; and reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at June 30, 2008 and March 31, 2008, are attached.
CONTACT: Pitney Bowes Inc. Editorial: Sheryl Y. Battles, 203-351-6808 VP, Corp. Communications or Financial: Charles F. McBride, 203-351-6349 VP, Investor Relations
www.pitneybowes.com


