FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20080207170825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
February 7, 2008 (February 7, 2008)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Pitney Bowes Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
World Headquarters
1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(Address of principal executive offices)
(203) 356-5000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
(see General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
  
ITEM 2.02.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Disclosure of "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On February 7, 2008, the registrant issued a press release setting forth its financial results, including consolidated statements of income, supplemental information, and a reconciliation of reported results to adjusted results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
  
ITEM 9.01.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Pitney Bowes Announces Fourth Quarter and Annual Results for 2007
Revenue growth of 8% for the quarter and 7% for the year
Adjusted earnings per diluted share of $.72 for the quarter and $2.72 per diluted share for the year
GAAP loss per diluted share of $.27 for the quarter and earnings per diluted share of $1.66 for the year
Free cash flow of $374 million for the quarter and $924 million for the year
Cash from operations of $364 million for the quarter and $ 1.1 billion for the year
Company reaffirms guidance of $2.80 to $2.90 for adjusted earnings per diluted share for 2008
STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) today reported 2007 fourth quarter and annual financial results.
Revenue increased 8 percent for the quarter to $1.7 billion and 7 percent for the year to $6.1 billion. This compares with the companys guidance range of 6 to 9 percent growth for the quarter and 6 to 8 percent growth for the year.
The companys adjusted income from continuing operations was $157 million for the quarter and $601 million for the year. Adjusted income for the quarter and the year excludes charges related to the initiatives the company announced on November 15, 2007 to reduce costs, accelerate improvements in operational efficiency and transition its product line; an impairment of certain intangible assets; tax adjustments; and the alignment of MapInfos accounting treatment for software revenue recognition with the companys policies. Adjusted income also excludes $10 million of income from discontinued operations for the quarter and $6 million of income for the year. On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, the company reported a net loss for the quarter of $58 million and net income of $367 million for the year.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter was $.72, which compares with the companys guidance of $.67 to $.71 and $.77 for the prior year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the year was $2.72, which compares with the companys guidance of $2.67 to $2.71 and $2.69 for the prior year. On a GAAP basis, the company reported a net loss per diluted share of $.27 for the fourth quarter, compared with earnings of $.71 per diluted share for the prior year. Earnings per diluted share for the year on a GAAP basis was $1.66, compared with $.47 for the prior year.
The companys results for the quarter and the year are further summarized in the table below:
Free cash flow for the quarter was $374 million. Free cash flow for the year was $924 million, which compares with the companys guidance of $625 million to $675 million. Free cash flow for the quarter and the year reflects lower utilization of cash for capital expenditures and working capital; lower tax payments; lower finance receivables; an increase in customer deposits for postage; and proceeds from the sale of one of the companys facilities.
The company generated $364 million in cash from operations for the quarter and $1.1 billion for the year.
During the quarter, the company used $72 million of cash for dividends and $120 million to repurchase 3.1 million of its shares. The remaining authorization for future share repurchases is $407 million. For the year, the company returned $289 million to shareholders through dividends and repurchased $400 million of its shares.
Commenting on the quarter and the year, President and CEO Murray D. Martin noted, We anticipated the factors that affected our results for the quarter, and are pleased with the positive impact of the actions we have taken in response to current conditions. During the quarter, we also benefited from the ongoing demand by large enterprise customers for our expanded software solutions and the continued success of our mail services business. As a result, we exceeded our revised earnings expectations. We also achieved exceptionally strong levels of free cash flow, which gives us the financial flexibility to invest in the future and return cash to our shareholders.
While we faced several challenges in 2007, we believe the actions we took in the fourth quarter, and that we will continue to take in 2008, will position the company for sustained, long-term improvement in earnings and increased shareholder value. We have the worlds most advanced mailing systems that are networkable and capable of accommodating a wide variety of postal rates and facilitating services that posts worldwide currently offer and will offer mailers in the future. We recognize the challenges ahead of us and have taken decisive actions to improve customer service, streamline our processes, and reduce our cost structure.
Business Segment Results
includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from the sale, rental, and financing of mail finishing, mail creation, shipping, and production mail equipment; supplies; mailing and multi-vendor support services; payment solutions; and mailing and customer communication software.
Mailstream Solutions
In the fourth quarter, Mailstream Solutions revenue increased 4 percent to $1.2 billion and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) declined 4 percent to $329 million, when compared with the prior year.
Within Mailstream Solutions:
revenue declined 9 percent to $566 million and EBIT declined 7 percent to $228 million. As expected, the segments revenue and EBIT for the quarter were adversely affected by lower equipment sales due to the wind-down of meter migration, a shift in the timing of revenue due to the postal rate case in the first half of the year, and weak economic conditions.
U.S. Mailing
revenue grew 12 percent to $305 million and EBIT decreased 4 percent to $46 million. International Mailing revenue growth benefited by about 12 percent from favorable currency translation but was adversely affected by lower equipment sales in Europe and Canada. As discussed in October, EBIT margin comparisons with the prior year were adversely affected by incremental expenses related to the outsourcing of the companys order and financial processing. However, the EBIT margin improved by 180 basis points when compared with the third quarter due to improved performance in the UK.
International Mailing
Worldwide revenue for grew 6 percent to $190 million while EBIT declined 8 percent to $31 million. Revenue growth was driven by higher equipment placements in the U.S. and Asia; however, lower equipment sales in Europe and Canada offset this growth. Favorable currency translation contributed about 6 percent to growth. The EBIT margin declined due to the favorable effects of meter migration in the prior year.
Production Mail
revenue increased 95 percent to $122 million and EBIT increased 52 percent to $25 million. Results for the quarter were driven by demand for location intelligence and customer communication software and software solutions outside of the U.S. The acquisition of MapInfo contributed 62 percent to revenue growth and favorable currency translation contributed 6 percent. EBIT benefited from operating leverage resulting from the increase in revenue.
Software
includes worldwide revenue and related expenses from facilities management contracts, reprographics, document management, and other value-added services for targeted customer markets; mail services operations, which include presort mail services and cross-border mail services; and marketing services.
Mailstream Services
For the quarter, Mailstream Services reported revenue growth of 17 percent to $480 million, and EBIT increased 5 percent to $45 million, versus the prior year.
Within Mailstream Services:
revenue increased 12 percent to $309 million for the quarter and EBIT increased 1 percent to $22 million. The segments revenue growth for the quarter benefited from the acquisition of a French-based business services company, which added about 9 percent to growth, and favorable currency translation, which added about 3 percent to growth. The segments revenue and EBIT were adversely affected by continued weakness in legal solutions and slower business in government solutions.
Management Services
revenue grew 32 percent to $124 million and EBIT grew 60 percent to $21 million. Revenue growth was driven by both presort and cross-border mail services, while EBIT benefited from operating leverage from the increase in mail volume and increased operating efficiencies.
Mail Services
revenue increased 11 percent to $47 million as the segments results benefited from acquisitions during the year, which added about 11 percent to revenue growth, and the continued expansion of marketing services programs. However, EBIT declined 70 percent to $2 million when compared with the prior year due to lower revenue and profit in the companys motor vehicle registration services program.
Marketing Services
2008 Guidance
The company reaffirms the 2008 guidance it provided on November 15, 2007; it expects 2008 revenue growth in the range of 6 to 9 percent and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in the range of $2.80 to $2.90.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share excludes charges related to the initiatives that the company announced on November 15, 2007 to reduce costs, accelerate improvements in operational efficiency and transition its product line. The company anticipates that the restructuring and asset impairment charges in 2008 in connection with these initiatives will be in the range of $20 million to $100 million ($0.07 to $0.34 per diluted share). Adjusted earnings per diluted share also excludes the final $0.01 per share impact during the first quarter of 2008 for the alignment of MapInfos accounting treatment for software revenue recognition with the companys policies.
On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.82.
The 2008 earnings guidance is summarized in the table below.
The company also reaffirms its guidance for free cash flow for 2008 in the range of $600 million to $675 million.
Management of Pitney Bowes will discuss the companys results in a broadcast over the Internet today at 5:00 p.m. EST. Instructions for listening to the earnings results via the Web are available on the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at www.pb.com/investorrelations.
Pitney Bowes engineers the flow of communication. The company is a $6.1 billion global leader of mailstream solutions headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. For more information about the company, its products, services and solutions, visit www.pitneybowes.com.
Pitney Bowes has presented in this earnings release diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis. Also, management has included a presentation of free cash flow on an adjusted basis, adjusted income from continuing operations, and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Management believes this presentation provides a reasonable basis on which to present the adjusted financial information, and is provided to assist in investors' understanding of the company's results of operations. The company's financial results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, earnings per share, income from continuing operations, and free cash flow results are adjusted to exclude the impact of special items such as transition initiatives, restructuring charges, accounting adjustments and write downs of assets, which materially impact the comparability of the company's results of operations.
Although transition initiatives and restructuring charges represent actual expenses to the company, these charges might mask the periodic income and financial and operating trends associated with our business. The use of free cash flow has limitations. GAAP cash flow has the advantage of including all cash available to the company after actual expenditures for all purposes. Free cash flow permits a shareholder insight into the amount of cash that management could have available for discretionary uses if it made different decisions about employing its cash. It adjusts for long-term commitments such as capital expenditures, as well as special items like cash used for restructuring charges, unusual tax payments and contributions to its pension funds. Of course, these items use cash that is not otherwise available to the company and are important expenditures. Management compensates for these limitations by using a combination of GAAP cash flow and free cash flow in doing its planning.
The adjusted financial information and certain financial measures such as EBIT are intended to be more indicative of the ongoing operations and economic results of the company. EBIT excludes interest payments and taxes, both cash items, and as a result, has the effect of showing a greater amount of earnings than net income. The company uses EBIT, in addition to net income and income from continuing operations, for purposes of measuring the performance of its unit management team. The interest rates and tax rates applicable to the company generally are outside the control of management, and it can be useful to judge performance independent of those variables.
The adjusted financial information should be viewed as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, the financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Further, our definition of this adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Pitney Bowes has provided in supplemental schedules attached for reference adjusted financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between the adjusted financial measures with the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, except with respect to our guidance because it would not be meaningful. Additional reconciliation of adjusted financial measures to financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP may be found at the company's web site in the Investor Relations section.
www.pb.com/investorrelations
The information contained in this document is as of December 31, 2007.
Quarterly results are preliminary and unaudited.
This document contains forward-looking statements about our expected future business and financial performance.
Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, "expect," "anticipate," intend, and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. For us forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about possible restructuring charges and our future guidance, including our expected revenue in the fourth quarter and full year 2007, and our expected diluted earnings per share for the full year 2008. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: negative developments in economic conditions, including adverse impacts on customer demand, timely development and acceptance of new products or gaining product approval; successful entry into new markets; changes in interest rates; and changes in postal regulations, as more fully outlined in the company's 2006 Form 10-K Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the forward-looking statements are subject to change based on the timing and specific terms of any announced acquisitions or dispositions.
Note: Consolidated statements of income for the three months ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and September 30, 2007 are attached.
CONTACT: Pitney Bowes Inc. Editorial - Sheryl Y. Battles, VP, Corp. Communications 203-351-6808 or Financial - Charles F. McBride, VP, Investor Relations 203-351-6349 www.pitneybowes.com


