FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20081103164338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
November 3, 2008 (November 3, 2008)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Pitney Bowes Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Address of principal executive offices) (Registrants telephone number, including area code) (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
World Headquarters 1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(203) 356-5000
Not Applicable
(see General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Disclosure of "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On November 3, 2008, the registrant issued a press release setting forth its financial results, including consolidated statements of income, supplemental information, and a reconciliation of reported results to adjusted results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at September 30 and June 30, 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Pitney Bowes Announces Third Quarter Results for 2008
STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 3, 2008--Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) today reported third quarter 2008 financial results.
The companys third quarter revenue increased 3 percent to $1.5 billion and adjusted income from continuing operations was $139 million. Adjusted income for the quarter excludes pre-tax charges of $40 million related to previously announced restructuring initiatives to reduce costs, accelerate operational improvements and transition the companys product lines. Adjusted income also excludes $9 million of pre-tax charges related to impairments of certain intangible assets in the Management Services and Marketing Services segments. On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, the company reported income from continuing operations of $100 million and net income of $98 million.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the third quarter was $0.67, which compares with $0.63 for the prior year. On a GAAP basis, the company reported earnings per diluted share from continuing operations of $0.48 for the quarter, compared with $0.58 per diluted share for the prior year. Earnings per diluted share for the quarter was $0.47 including discontinued operations, compared with $0.58 in the prior year.
The companys results for the quarter are further summarized in the table below:
Free cash flow for the quarter was $252 million, while on a GAAP basis cash from operations was $281 million. Year-to-date, free cash flow was $653 million, while on a GAAP basis cash from operations was $742 million.
During the quarter, the company used $73 million of cash for dividends and $61 million to buy back 1.7 million of its shares. The remaining authorization for future share repurchases was $73 million at the end of the third quarter. Year-to-date, the company has returned $553 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
Commenting on the companys performance, President and CEO Murray D. Martin noted, Our business model of high recurring revenue and our diverse customer base provide us with a measure of stability as these turbulent economic events unfold around the world. The rapid and significant appreciation of the U.S. dollar near the end of the quarter resulted in a slightly negative impact on earnings versus the prior year and had a $0.03 negative impact on the third quarter versus the second quarter earnings.
Concerns about the availability of credit and the status of the economy have delayed some customers buying decisions, particularly for large ticket sales in our software and production mail businesses. However, aggressive cost management, as part of the transition initiatives we began at the end of last year, reduced our cost structure as a percent of revenue, and improved our year-over-year EBIT margins in U.S. Mailing, International Mailing, U.S. Management Services, Production Mail, and Marketing Services.
We continue to generate very strong free cash flow and expect that trend to continue. In fact, we are forecasting annual free cash flow in excess of $800 million, marking our third and largest increase in our outlook this year.
The combination of our business model, strong free cash flow, and excellent credit ratings has allowed us continuous access to the commercial paper markets. We have issued commercial paper at more normal maturity levels and at favorable interest rates, even during this period of market uncertainty. Our strong liquidity position enables us to satisfy all of our financing needs. We will continue to be prudent on how we spend and invest our cash to maximize shareholder return.
Business Segment Results
revenue was $1.1 billion which was equal to last year, while earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) grew 3 percent to $291 million when compared with the prior year.
Mailstream Solutions
Within Mailstream Solutions:
revenue declined 5 percent to $549 million and EBIT declined one percent to $223 million. Because of actions the company has taken to reduce costs, the EBIT margin for U.S. Mailing improved to 40.6 percent. The decline in revenue was due primarily to lower mailing equipment and supplies sales as many government and major account customers deferred upgrade decisions for new equipment or extended leases on existing equipment.
U.S. Mailings
revenue grew 7 percent to $272 million and EBIT increased 23 percent to $41 million. Revenue growth benefited from increased rentals in France; increased equipment sales in Norway, other parts of Europe, and Asia; and continued good growth in supplies. Revenue growth also benefited by about 4 percent from favorable currency translation and by about 2 percent from acquisitions. EBIT margin comparisons with the prior year were favorably affected by an improving administrative cost structure in Europe.
International Mailings
Worldwide revenue for grew 2 percent to $155 million and EBIT increased 37 percent to $23 million. Favorable currency translation contributed about 2 percent to revenue growth. Revenue growth from higher equipment placements in the UK, Germany and other parts of Europe was offset by lower equipment sales in the U.S., where economic uncertainty has slowed large-ticket capital investment for many large financial services companies. The EBIT margin improved due to aggressive cost actions in anticipation of delayed buying decisions.
Production Mail
revenue increased 7 percent to $94 million while EBIT decreased 39 percent to $3 million. Revenue was flat, when compared with the prior year, after excluding the effect of acquisitions, which contributed about 7 percent to revenue growth. Software sales were adversely affected by the ongoing weak economic conditions worldwide causing some large enterprise accounts to continue to postpone their purchase decisions. The decline in EBIT margin was due to the planned global investment in sales and marketing, increased investment in research and development, as well as lower revenue growth.
Software
reported revenue growth of 9 percent to $478 million, while EBIT declined one percent to $38 million when compared with the prior year.
Mailstream Services
Within Mailstream Services:
revenue increased 4 percent to $288 million while EBIT decreased 6 percent to $16 million. The segments revenue growth for the quarter benefited from last years acquisition of a French business services company, which added about 6 percent to revenue growth, and favorable currency translation, which added about one percent to revenue growth. Revenue growth was adversely affected by lower transaction volumes for some customers, especially in the U.S. financial services sector. EBIT margin in the segment benefited from improvements in the U.S., where the margin increased to our near-term target of 10 percent because of the companys focus on productivity initiatives. However, the margin benefits from the U.S. actions were more than offset by the costs associated with the acquisition in France.
Management Services
revenue grew 25 percent to $140 million, while EBIT decreased one percent to $15 million. Revenue growth was driven by both presort and international mail services. Acquisitions added about 14 percent to revenue growth. As has been the case in past expansion periods, the EBIT benefits from operating leverage were more than offset in the quarter by the costs associated with the acquisition of a multi-site presort operation in the U.S. and two UK international mail services sites. The company expects positive EBIT margin contributions from these sites in 2009 as they become fully integrated.
Mail Services
revenue increased 4 percent to $50 million and EBIT increased 15 percent to $6 million. The companys phased exit from the motor vehicle registration services program adversely affected the segments revenue growth, while positively impacting EBIT margin versus the prior year.
Marketing Services
2008 Guidance
Based upon the year-to-date results and the outlook for the remainder of the year, the companys full-year free cash flow is expected to exceed $800 million. The company has revised its revenue growth expectations for the year to 2 to 4 percent and its expected adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the year to $2.75 to $2.82, primarily due to the rapid and significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar, as well as the uncertainty resulting from the weak economic environment. This guidance is based on exchange rates in effect on October 31, 2008.
Based on actions identified to date, the company expects to incur full-year pre-tax charges for restructuring and asset impairments of approximately $100 million or $0.35 per diluted share, of which $85 million or $0.30 per diluted share has been recorded during the first nine months of the year. The company is identifying further actions before the end of the year to reduce its cost structure and improve operational efficiency.
On a GAAP basis, earnings per diluted share from continuing operations is expected to be in the range of $2.37 to $2.44.
The 2008 earnings guidance is summarized in the table below.
* Note: The sum of the EPS amounts do not equal the totals above due to rounding
In conclusion Mr. Martin noted, While we anticipate continued economic uncertainty for the remainder of 2008 and into 2009, our products and services are designed to provide efficiencies, cost savings and revenue growth opportunities for our customers. We will also continue to aggressively manage our cost structure. As a result, we believe we are well positioned to continue to grow our earnings in the fourth quarter and during 2009 despite these market challenges.
Management of Pitney Bowes will discuss the companys results in a broadcast over the Internet today at 5:00 p.m. EST. Instructions for listening to the earnings results via the Web are available on the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at .
www.pb.com/investorrelations
Pitney Bowes engineers the flow of communication. The company is a $6.4 billion global leader of mailstream solutions headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut. For more information about the company, its products, services and solutions, visit .
www.pitneybowes.com
Pitney Bowes has presented in this earnings release diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis. Also, management has included a presentation of free cash flow on an adjusted basis, adjusted income from continuing operations, and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Management believes this presentation provides a reasonable basis on which to present the adjusted financial information, and is provided to assist in investors' understanding of the company's results of operations. The company's financial results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, earnings per share, income from continuing operations, and free cash flow results are adjusted to exclude the impact of special items such as transition initiatives, restructuring charges, accounting adjustments and write downs of assets, which materially impact the comparability of the company's results of operations.
Although these charges represent actual expenses to the company, these charges might mask the periodic income and financial and operating trends associated with our business. The use of free cash flow has limitations. GAAP cash flow has the advantage of including all cash available to the company after actual expenditures for all purposes. Free cash flow permits a shareholder insight into the amount of cash that management could have available for discretionary uses if it made different decisions about employing its cash. It adjusts for long-term commitments such as capital expenditures, as well as special items like cash used for restructuring charges, unusual tax payments and contributions to its pension funds. Of course, these items use cash that is not otherwise available to the company and are important expenditures. Management compensates for these limitations by using a combination of GAAP cash flow and free cash flow in doing its planning.
The adjusted financial information and certain financial measures such as EBIT are intended to be more indicative of the ongoing operations and economic results of the company. EBIT excludes interest payments and taxes, both cash expenses to the company, and as a result, has the effect of showing a greater amount of earnings than net income. The company uses EBIT, in addition to net income and income from continuing operations, for purposes of measuring the performance of its management team. The interest rates and tax rates applicable to the company generally are outside the control of management, and it can be useful to judge performance independent of those variables.
The adjusted financial information should be viewed as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, the financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Further, our definition of this adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Pitney Bowes has provided in supplemental schedules attached for reference adjusted financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between the adjusted financial measures with the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, except with respect to our guidance because it would not be meaningful. Additional reconciliation of adjusted financial measures to financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP may be found at the company's web site in the Investor Relations section.
www.pb.com/investorrelations
The information contained in this document is as of September 30, 2008.
Quarterly results are preliminary and unaudited.
This document contains forward-looking statements about our expected future business and financial performance.
Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, "expect," "anticipate," intend, and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. For us forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about possible restructuring charges and our future guidance, including our expected revenue, and our expected diluted earnings per share for the full year 2008. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the uncertain economic environment, including adverse impacts on customer demand, timely development and acceptance of new products or gaining product approval; successful entry into new markets; changes in interest rates; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in tax rates; and changes in postal regulations, as more fully outlined in the company's 2007 Form 10-K Annual Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the forward-looking statements are subject to change based on the timing and specific terms of any announced acquisitions or dispositions.
Note: Consolidated statements of income; revenue and EBIT by business segment; and reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at September 30 and June 30, 2008, are attached.
CONTACT: Editorial  Sheryl Y. Battles, 203-351-6808 VP, Corp. Communications OR Financial  Charles F. McBride, 203-351-6349 VP, Investor Relations
www.pitneybowes.com


