FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20090205161450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
February 5, 2009 (February 5, 2009)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Pitney Bowes Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Address of principal executive offices) (Registrants telephone number, including area code) (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
World Headquarters 1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(203) 356-5000
Not Applicable
(see General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02.   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 Disclosure of "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
On February 5, 2009, the Registrant issued a press release setting forth its financial results, including consolidated statements of income, supplemental information, and a reconciliation of reported results to adjusted results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at December 31 and September 30 of 2008.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Pitney Bowes Announces Fourth Quarter and Annual Results for 2008
STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 5, 2009--Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) today reported 2008 fourth quarter and annual financial results.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter increased 8 percent to $.77 from $.72 for the prior year. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the year increased 2 percent to $2.78 from $2.72 for the prior year, and was within the companys annual guidance of $2.75 to $2.82. Adjusted earnings per diluted share for the quarter and the year excludes pre-tax charges related to restructuring initiatives; impairments of certain intangible assets; and tax adjustments related primarily to deferred tax assets associated with certain U.S. leasing transactions. Adjusted earnings per diluted share also exclude losses from discontinued operations for the quarter and for the year.
On a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis, the company reported earnings per diluted share of $.36 for the fourth quarter, compared with a loss of $.27 per diluted share for the prior year. Earnings per diluted share for the year on a GAAP basis increased 21 percent to $2.00 from $1.66 for the prior year.
The companys adjusted income from continuing operations was $160 million for the quarter and $583 million for the year. On a GAAP basis, the company reported net income for the quarter of $74 million and $420 million for the year.
Revenue for the quarter was $1.6 billion, a decline of 7 percent compared with the prior year driven primarily by currency. On a constant currency basis revenue declined less than 2 percent. For the full-year, currency had a nominal impact on revenue which increased 2 percent to $6.3 billion, and was within the companys guidance range of 2 to 4 percent.
The companys results for the quarter and the year are further summarized in the table below:
Free cash flow was $235 million for the quarter and $888 million for the year. This compares with the companys guidance that free cash flow would be in excess of $800 million for the year.
On a GAAP basis, the company generated $249 million in cash from operations for the quarter and $990 million for the year.
During the quarter, the company used $72 million of cash for dividends and did not repurchase any of its shares. For the year, the company returned $292 million to shareholders through dividends and repurchased $333 million of its shares. The company still has $73 million of authorization remaining for future share repurchases.
Commenting on the quarter and the year, Chairman, President and CEO Murray D. Martin noted, I am very pleased with the way our company performed during one of the most turbulent economic environments in recent history. On a full-year basis we generated robust cash flow, increased revenue, and grew adjusted EPS in line with current guidance. We believe these results were even more notable given the impact of currency. Significant currency fluctuation, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, reduced our earnings per share by five cents for the year, when compared with the original guidance we provided at the beginning of 2008.
Our results highlight the resiliency of our business model, our disciplined focus on cash generation, and the execution of our restructuring initiatives. In late 2007, we initiated aggressive actions that we continued throughout 2008 to reduce our cost structure, streamline our operations and enhance our customer experience. The results of these actions can be seen in improving gross margins across nearly all our revenue streams, as well as improving EBIT margins in many of our business segments. Our enhanced actions in the fourth quarter 2008 will strengthen our ability to manage through the uncertainties and maximize the benefits of future economic recovery.
In addition, we also took steps to further improve our capital position and increase our liquidity during these uncertain times. During the fourth quarter, we reduced our debt by $220 million, providing additional capital capacity. Throughout the year we maintained a strong investment grade credit rating for our debt and as a result, we continued to have unencumbered access to the commercial paper market.
We will continue to invest in developing new products and services, enhancing our customer experience, and improving our business processes with the expectation that our business model will continue to generate substantial free cash flow in 2009. For the 27 consecutive year, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend. The dividend for the first quarter will increase 3 percent to $.36 per common share.
th
Business Segment Results
earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) declined 3 percent to $317 million while revenue decreased 9 percent to $1.1 billion, when compared with the prior year.
Mailstream Solutions
Within Mailstream Solutions:
EBIT as a percentage of revenue improved to 41.2 percent from 40.4 percent, because of the ongoing actions the company has taken to reduce costs and streamline operations. EBIT declined one percent to $228 million as a result of the decline in revenue of 3 percent to $554 million. U.S. Mailing had a 6 percent increase in equipment sales revenue, versus the prior year, as it started to benefit from the anticipated higher number of customers with leases becoming available for renewal and upgrade. This growth was offset by lower financing revenue, meter rentals, and supplies sales resulting from lower equipment sales over the last year as well as the slowing economy.
U.S. Mailing
EBIT as a percentage of revenue improved to 16.8 percent from 15.0 percent, because of actions taken over the past two years to reduce costs through the outsourcing of manufacturing and the consolidation of back office operations. EBIT declined only 8 percent to $42 million on a currency-driven revenue decline of 18 percent to $252 million. Unfavorable currency translation caused 15 percentage points of the revenue decline for the quarter. Acquisitions added about one percent to revenue growth. On a local currency basis, there was positive revenue growth in Latin America, France, and Germany. Worsening economic conditions resulted in a decline in revenue in the UK, Canada and Asia Pacific.
International Mailing
Worldwide EBIT as a percentage of revenue improved to 19.4 percent from 16.3 percent, because of ongoing actions to reduce administrative costs and improve gross margins. These actions were part of the companys aggressive restructuring initiatives implemented in anticipation of a slowing capital investment environment. EBIT increased 8 percent to $34 million while revenue declined 10 percent to $177 million, of which 6 percentage points pertained to unfavorable currency translation. The company continued to see strong demand in the UK, France and Canada for its high-speed, intelligent inserting systems. Sales in the U.S., other parts of Europe and Latin America slowed as large enterprises curtailed their big-ticket capital expenditures due to ongoing credit constraints and global economic uncertainty.
Production Mail
EBIT as a percentage of revenue declined to 11.9 percent from 17.2 percent, primarily because of lower revenue, product mix and the planned investments in the expansion of the distribution channel and globalization of the companys research and development infrastructure. EBIT declined 38 percent to $12 million and revenue declined 11 percent to $104 million. Unfavorable currency translation caused 9 percentage points of the revenue decline and acquisitions added about 5 percentage points to revenue growth for the quarter. Consistent with the behavior noted in other businesses, there were fewer large-ticket licensing deals than the prior year as customers assessed the overall business environment.
Software
reported a decline in EBIT of 5 percent to $40 million and a decline in revenue of 2 percent to $466 million, when compared with the prior year.
Mailstream Services
Within Mailstream Services:
EBIT as a percentage of revenue declined to 6.1 percent from 7.2 percent, primarily because of the decline in revenue during the quarter. In the U.S., despite declining transaction volumes, EBIT as a percentage of revenue improved by 70 basis points to more than 12 percent. This was a result of reducing the fixed cost structure of the business. For Management Services businesses outside the U.S., lower print and transaction volumes, particularly in the UK and Germany, resulted in a decline in EBIT. In aggregate EBIT for the segment declined 22 percent to $17 million and revenue declined 9 percent to $281 million. Unfavorable currency translation caused about 4 percentage points of the revenue decline for the quarter.
Management Services
EBIT increased 6 percent to $19 million and revenue increased 19 percent to $142 million. Unfavorable currency translation reduced revenue growth by about 1 percentage point, while acquisitions added about 14 percentage points to growth for the quarter. Solid growth in the volume of mail processed contributed to underlying revenue growth. EBIT as a percentage of revenue declined to 13.4 percent from 15.0 percent. As has been the case in past expansion periods, the benefits from operating leverage were temporarily offset by the integration costs associated with acquisitions in the U.S. and UK earlier in 2008. Excluding these sites, EBIT margin would have improved 80 basis points to 15.8 percent. The company expects positive EBIT margin contributions from the acquired sites in 2009 as they become fully integrated.
Mail Services
EBIT as a percentage of revenue improved to 9.9 percent from 5.2 percent, because of the strong performance of the postal change of address marketing program. EBIT as a percentage of revenue also benefited from cost reduction initiatives and the exit from the companys motor vehicle registration services program. EBIT increased 73 percent to $4 million while revenue declined 8 percent to $43 million.
Marketing Services
2009 Guidance
The companys recurring revenue model, as well as the actions the company has taken to significantly reduce costs and streamline its operations, help mitigate, but do not eliminate the effects of prolonged global economic weakness and unanticipated currency fluctuations. Two external factors in particular, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen last year and the significant increase in pension costs related to recent changes in financial markets and interest rates, will impact 2009 reported results.
Given the uncertainty and volatility that characterizes todays markets, the company is providing a wider range of guidance than it has historically. The guidance presumes no significant changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates from their current levels.
On a constant currency basis, the company expects 2009 revenue in the range of 1 percent growth to a decline of 2 percent. On a reported basis, the company expects revenue in the range of a decline of 4 percent to 7 percent, which includes an estimated negative 5 percent impact from currency when compared with 2008.
The company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the year will be in the range of $2.55 to $2.75. Adjusted EPS would grow in the mid-single digit range compared with 2008, excluding an estimated negative impact of $.30 to $.35 per diluted share from currency and incremental pension expense.
On a GAAP basis, the company expects earnings per diluted share from continuing operations for the year will be in the range of $2.49 to $2.69. GAAP earnings per diluted share from continuing operations will include approximately 6 cents per share related to a non-cash tax charge associated with out-of-the-money stock options that expire principally in the first quarter of 2009.
The company also expects to generate free cash flow in a range of $700 million to $800 million for the year.
Mr. Martin concluded, While no one can predict with any certainty what the future will bear and when the economy will improve, our business model and the actions we have taken position us well to weather these uncertain times and, as conditions improve, to continue to lever our actions for strong profitable growth.
Management of Pitney Bowes will discuss the companys results in a broadcast over the Internet today at 5:00 p.m. EST. Instructions for listening to the earnings results via the Web are available on the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at .
www.pb.com/investorrelations
Pitney Bowes is a $6.3 billion global leader whose products, services and solutions deliver value within the mailstream and beyond. For more information visit .
www.pitneybowes.com
Pitney Bowes has presented in this earnings release diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis. Also, management has included a presentation of free cash flow on an adjusted basis, adjusted income from continuing operations, and earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT). Management believes this presentation provides a reasonable basis on which to present the adjusted financial information, and is provided to assist in investors' understanding of the company's results of operations. The company's financial results are reported in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). However, earnings per share, income from continuing operations, and free cash flow results are adjusted to exclude the impact of special items such as transition initiatives, restructuring charges, accounting adjustments and write downs of assets, which materially impact the comparability of the company's results of operations.
Although these charges represent actual expenses to the company, these charges might mask the periodic income and financial and operating trends associated with our business.
The use of free cash flow has limitations. GAAP cash flow has the advantage of including all cash available to the company after actual expenditures for all purposes. Free cash flow permits a shareholder insight into the amount of cash that management could have available for discretionary uses if it made different decisions about employing its cash. It adjusts for long-term commitments such as capital expenditures, as well as special items like cash used for restructuring charges, unusual tax payments and contributions to its pension funds. Of course, these items use cash that is not otherwise available to the company and are important expenditures. Management compensates for these limitations by using a combination of GAAP cash flow and free cash flow in doing its planning.
The adjusted financial information and certain financial measures such as EBIT are intended to be more indicative of the ongoing operations and economic results of the company. EBIT excludes interest payments and taxes, both cash expenses to the company, and as a result, has the effect of showing a greater amount of earnings than net income. The company uses EBIT, in addition to net income and income from continuing operations, for purposes of measuring the performance of its management team. The interest rates and tax rates applicable to the company generally are outside the control of management, and it can be useful to judge performance independent of those variables.
The adjusted financial information should be viewed as a supplement to, rather than a replacement for, the financial results reported in accordance with GAAP. Further, our definition of this adjusted financial information may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Pitney Bowes has provided in supplemental schedules attached for reference adjusted financial information and a quantitative reconciliation of the differences between the adjusted financial measures with the financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, except with respect to our guidance because it would not be meaningful. Additional reconciliation of adjusted financial measures to financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP may be found at the company's web site in the Investor Relations section.
www.pb.com/investorrelations
The information contained in this document is as of December 31, 2008.
Results are preliminary and unaudited.
This document contains forward-looking statements about our expected future business and financial performance.
Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information or future events or developments.
Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, "expect," "anticipate," intend, and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. For us forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about possible restructuring charges and our future guidance, including our expected revenue, and our expected diluted earnings per share for the full year 2009. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: the uncertain economic environment, including adverse impacts on customer demand, timely development and acceptance of new products or gaining product approval; successful entry into new markets; changes in interest rates; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; changes in tax rates; and changes in postal regulations, as more fully outlined in the company's 2007 Form 10-K Annual Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the forward-looking statements are subject to change based on the timing and specific terms of any announced acquisitions or dispositions.
Note: Consolidated statements of income; revenue and EBIT by business segment; and reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures for the three months and year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008 are attached.
CONTACT: Pitney Bowes Inc. Editorial: Sheryl Y. Battles, 203-351-6808 VP, Corp. Communications or Financial: Charles F. McBride, 203-351-6349 VP, Investor Relations
www.pitneybowes.com


