FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20100617160012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
June 17, 2010 (June 11, 2010)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Pitney Bowes Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Address of principal executive offices) (Registrants telephone number, including area code) (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
World Headquarters 1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(203) 356-5000
Not Applicable
(see General Instruction A.2. below)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 11, 2010, David C. Dobson, Executive Vice President and President Pitney Bowes Management Services, and Enterprise Sales and Solutions notified Pitney Bowes Inc. (the Company) of his decision to resign as an officer and employee of the Company effective July 5, 2010 to take an executive management position at another Fortune 500 company.  On July 5, 2010 Vicki A. O'Meara, currently serving as the Executive Vice President and Chief Legal and Compliance Officer, will assume responsibility for Pitney Bowes Management Services as Executive Vice President and President Pitney Bowes Management Services, and Government and Postal Affairs.  Ms. OMeara will cease serving as Chief Legal and Compliance Officer at that time.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
OMeara, OHara Named To Expanded Leadership Roles at Pitney Bowes
STAMFORD, Conn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--June 17, 2010--Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) today announced it was appointing two executives to expanded senior leadership roles at the company.
Vicki OMeara, who joined Pitney Bowes in 2008 as executive vice president and chief legal and compliance officer, has been appointed executive vice president and president, Pitney Bowes Management Services and Government & Postal Affairs. John OHara, who served as executive vice president and general manager of the international operations of Pitney Bowes Business Insight (PBBI), has been named vice president and president, PBBI.
As president of Pitney Bowes Management Services, OMeara will lead a more than $1 billion business unit that designs, implements and operates global solutions that provide clients with customer communication, mail and document lifecycle services that result in more effective, efficient and compliant business processes and operations. Representative clients include some of the worlds largest corporations, government agencies and law firms. The International Association of Outsourcing Professionals has named Pitney Bowes Management Services to its Global Outsourcing 100 leaders list for four consecutive years.
Before joining Pitney Bowes, OMeara was at Ryder System, Inc., where she worked for ten years in senior staff and operating roles. In her last position at Ryder, she served as president of the companys $2 billion U.S. Supply Chain Solutions division. Before joining Ryder, OMeara was a partner at Jones, Day, Reavis and Pogue, where she led the firms global environmental, health and safety section. Her early career was spent in government, including legal leadership positions at the Department of Justice and the Environmental Protection Agency, and an appointment as a White House Fellow.
By combining her strong prior operational experience and customer relationships together with her strategic knowledge of our mailing and postal environments, Vicki will bring her unique vision and execution orientation to Pitney Bowes Management Services, commented Pitney Bowes Chairman, President and CEO Murray Martin.
OMeara succeeds David Dobson, who is leaving Pitney Bowes to pursue an executive leadership role at another company. OMearas responsibilities as chief legal and compliance officer will be filled on an interim basis by Johnna Torsone, Pitney Bowess executive vice president and chief human resources officer.
As president of Pitney Bowes Business Insight (PBBI), OHara takes the helm of a business unit that according to magazine ranked #107 among the worlds largest software companies. PBBI offers a comprehensive set of solutions for maximizing the value of customer and location data, and provides tools that help companies effectively locate, connect and communicate with their customers. A UK-based subsidiary of PBBI recently announced its intention to acquire the outstanding shares of Portrait Software plc, a company that provides software to enhance existing customer relationship management systems.
Software
OHara joined Pitney Bowes in 2007 when Pitney Bowes acquired the software company then known as MapInfo. At the time, he was executive vice president, international, and he was subsequently named executive vice president and general manager, international operations for PBBI. Before joining MapInfo, OHara held senior general management roles at Microsoft UK, Pivotal Corporation, and at Lotus Development Corporation in the United Kingdom and South Africa.
John brings real strengths to the top leadership role at PBBI. He has a deep industry background, global experience, and extensive customer relationships worldwide. We are eager to grow this business and John understands what it will take to succeed, said Martin.
OHara succeeds Mike Hickey, who recently announced he was leaving the company to begin a career as a consultant and university lecturer.
About Pitney Bowes
Celebrating its 90th year of innovation, Pitney Bowes provides software, hardware and services that integrate physical and digital communications channels. Long known for making its customers more productive, Pitney Bowes is increasingly helping other companies grow their business. Pitney Bowes is a $5.6 billion company and employs 33,000 worldwide. Pitney Bowes: Every connection is a new opportunity.
www.pb.com
Photos/Multimedia Gallery Available:
http://www.businesswire.com/cgi-bin/mmg.cgi?eid=6331704&lang=en
CONTACT: Pitney Bowes Inc. Matt Broder, 203-351-6347 Vice President, External Communications
matthew.broder@pb.com


