FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20110512161249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
As set forth in Item 5.07 below, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 9, 2011 at the Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Company") World Headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut (the "Annual Meeting") the Company's stockholders approved certain amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Certificate") and to the Pitney Bowes Inc. Amended and Restated By-laws (the "By-laws") to remove the supermajority voting requirements for the following actions (i) removing any director from office; (ii) certain business combinations; (iii) amending certain provisions of the Certificate; and (iv) amending certain provisions of the By-laws. The Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Certificate of Amendment") was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 9, 2011 and became effective upon filing.
Additionally, on May 9, 2011, subsequent to the Annual Meeting, the Company's Board of Directors approved the elimination of the provisions of the Certificate relating to the Series A Junior Participating Preference Stock since no such shares were outstanding and the Company has no plans to issue any such shares. The Certificate of Elimination of the Series A Junior Participating Preference Stock of Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Certificate of Elimination") was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 9, 2011 and became effective upon filing. After approving the elimination of the Series A Junior Participating Preference Stock, the Company's Board of Directors approved (i) the restatement of the Certificate (the "Restated Certificate"), subject to and conditioned upon the filing of the Certificate of Amendment and the Certificate of Elimination, and (ii) the amendment and restatement of the By-laws (the "Amended and Restated By-Laws"), subject to and conditioned upon the effectiveness of the Restated Certificate in each case to integrate the prior amendments and eliminations to each respective document. The Amended and Restated By-Laws became effective on May 10, 2011.
The description above is qualified in its entirety by the Certificate of Amendment, the Certificate of Elimination, the Restated Certificate and the Amended and Restated By-Laws, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits (3)(a), (b), (c) and (d) respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
The individuals listed below were elected to serve as directors of the Company for a one year term expiring at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until his successor is elected and has qualified, or until such director's death, resignation or removal. The voting results were as follows:
Proposal 2  Ratification of the Audit Committee's Appointment of the Independent Accountants for 2011
The appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011 was ratified. The voting results were as follows:
Proposal 3  Amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-laws to Remove Certain Supermajority Vote Requirements.
The amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Pitney Bowes Inc. Amended and Restated By-laws to remove the supermajority vote requirements for certain actions listed below were approved. The voting results were as follows:
          Proposal 3(a): Removing any director from office
          Proposal 3(b): Certain business combinations
          Proposal 3(c): Amending certain provisions of the Certificate
          Proposal 3(d): Amending certain provisions of the By-laws
Proposal 4  Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
The advisory vote on executive compensation was approved. The voting results were as follows:
Proposal 5  Advisory Vote on the Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on Executive Compensation
Stockholders voted on an advisory basis to conduct future advisory votes on executive compensation every one year. The voting results were as follows:
Proposal 6  Approval of the Material Terms of the Performance Goals Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) for Certain Incentive Plans
The material terms of the performance goals pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m) for the following incentive plans were approved. The voting results were as follows:
          Proposal 6(a): Pitney Bowes Inc. Key Employees Incentive Plan
          Proposal 3(b): Pitney Bowes Inc. 2007 Stock Plan
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 3(a)
          Pitney Bowes Inc., a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"),
          DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
          FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, duly noticed and held on February 14, 2011, the Board of Directors voted to approve, and to recommend to the stockholders that they approve amendments to the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
          SECOND: That said amendments were duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and approved by the stockholders at the May 9, 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, at which meeting the necessary number of shares as required by law and the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation were voted in favor of the amendments and that pursuant to such amendments Article Seventh, Article Eighth, Article Ninth and Article Tenth shall henceforth read as follows:
          
"Seventh
:-
PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
          (a) Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth hereof relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of the Directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or pursuant to the By-Laws of the Corporation. Commencing with the
Number, election and terms.
annual meeting of stockholders in 2011, the Directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, shall be elected annually for terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting; provided, however, that Directors elected at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, Directors elected at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, and Directors elected at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.
          (b) Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of Directors shall be given in the manner provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
Stockholder nomination of director candidates.
          (c) . Except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth hereof relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any Director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
Newly created directorship and vacancies
          (d) . Subject to the rights of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect Directors under specified circumstances, any Director may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal
          (e) . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal this Article SEVENTH.
Amendment, repeal, etc
:-
Eighth
PROVISIONS RELATING TO STOCKHOLDER ACTION
          Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be affected by any consent in writing by such holders. Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock
as to dividends or upon liquidation, special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal this Article EIGHTH.
:-
Ninth
PROVISIONS RELATING TO BY-LAWS
          The Board of Directors shall have power to make, alter, amend and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation (except so far as the By-Laws of the Corporation adopted by the stockholders shall otherwise provide). Any By-Laws made by the Directors under the powers conferred hereby may be altered, amended or repealed by the Directors or by the stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing and anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, Article I, Section 7 and Article II, Sections 2, 3, 4. 5, and 6 of the By-Laws shall not be altered, amended or repealed and no provision inconsistent therewith shall be adopted by the stockholders without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal this Article NINTH.
:-
Tenth
PROVISIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
Section 1. Vote Required for Certain Business Combinations.
          A. . In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 2 of this Article TENTH:
Vote for Certain Business Combinations
          (i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) with (a) any Interested Stockholder (as hereinafter defined) or (b) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate (as hereinafter defined) of an Interested Stockholder; or
          (ii) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $50,000,000 or more; or
          (iii) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $50,000,000 or more; or
          (iv) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder; or
          (v) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any of its Subsidiaries or any other transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Stockholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is directly or indirectly owned by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder;
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), voting together as a single class (it being understood that for purposes of this Article TENTH, each share of the Voting Stock shall have the number of votes granted to it as determined pursuant to Article FOURTH of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation). Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
          B. . The term "Business Combination" as used in this Article TENTH shall mean any transaction which is referred to in any one or more clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph A of this Section 1.
Definition of "Business Combination"
Section 2. When Vote is Not Required.
          The provisions of Section 1 of this Article TENTH shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law and any other provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, if all of the conditions specified in either of the following paragraphs A and B are met:
          A. The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined).
Approval by Disinterested Directors.
          B. All of the following conditions shall have been met:
Price and Procedural Requirements.
          (i) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of Common Stock in such Business Combination shall be at
least equal to the higher of the following, appropriately adjusted for any stock dividend, split-up or combination of shares:
          (a) (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of Common Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposal of the Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or (2) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher; and
          (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the Announcement Date or on the date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder (such latter date is referred to in this Article TENTH as the "Determination Date"), whichever is higher.
          (ii) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of shares of any other class of outstanding Voting Stock shall be at least equal to the highest of the following, appropriately adjusted for any stock dividend, split-up or combination of shares (it being intended that the requirements of this paragraph B (II) shall be required to be met with respect to every class of outstanding Voting Stock, whether or not the Interested Stockholder has previously acquired any shares of a particular class of Voting Stock):
          (a) (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commission, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of such class of Voting Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date of (2) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher;
          (b) (if applicable) the highest preferential amount per share to which the holders of shares of such class of Voting Stock are entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; and
          (c) the Fair Market Value per share of such class of Voting Stock on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher.
          (iii) The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding Voting Stock (including Common Stock) shall be in cash or in the same form as the Interested Stockholder has previously paid for shares of such class of Voting Stock. If the Interested Stockholder has paid for shares of any class of Voting Stock with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration for such class of Voting Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the largest number of shares of such class of Voting Stock previously acquired by it.
          (iv) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination: (a) except as approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors, there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) on the outstanding Preferred or Preference Stock; (b) there shall have been (1) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common Stock),
except as approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors, and (2) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split) recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of the Common Stock, unless the failure so to increase such annual rate is approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors; and (c) such Interested Stockholder shall have not become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock except as part of the transaction which results in such Interested Stockholder becoming an Interested Stockholder.
          (v) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder, such Interested Stockholder shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation, whether in anticipation of or in connection with such Business Combination or otherwise.
          (vi) A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to public stockholders of the Corporation at least 30 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions).
Section 3. Certain Definitions
          For the purposes of this Article TENTH:
          A. A "person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation or other entity.
          B. "Interested Stockholder" shall mean any person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
               (i) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 20% of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Stock; or
               (ii) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock; or
               (iii) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by any Interested Stockholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933.
          C. A person shall be a "beneficial owner" of any Voting Stock:
               (i) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates (as hereinafter defined) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or
               (ii) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (a) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (b) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; or
               (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any shares of Voting Stock.
          D. For the purposes of determining whether a person is an Interested Stockholder pursuant to paragraph B of this Section 3, the number of shares of Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed owned through application of paragraph C of this Section 3 but shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock which may be issuable to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
          E. "Affiliate" or "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on May 3, 1984.
          F. "Subsidiary" means any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation; provided, however, that for the purposes of the definition of Interested Stockholder set forth in paragraph B of this Section 3, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation.
          G. "Disinterested Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") who is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and was a member of the Board prior to the time that the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, and any successor of a Disinterested Director who is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and is recommended to succeed a Disinterested Director by a majority of Disinterested Directors then on the Board.
          H. "Fair Market Value" means: (i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange Listed Stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such Stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use, or if no such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by the Board in good faith; and (ii) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by the Board in good faith.
          I. In the event of any Business Combination in which the Corporation survives, the phrase "other consideration to be received" as used in paragraphs B (i) and (ii) of Section 2 of this Article TENTH shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class of outstanding Voting Stock retained by the holders of such shares.
Section 4. Powers of the Board of Directors.
          A majority of the directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article TENTH, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, (A) whether a person is an Interested Stockholder, (B) the number of shares of Voting Stock beneficially owned by any person, (C) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (D) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $50,000,000 or more.
Section 5. No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations of Interested Stockholders.
          Nothing contained in this Article TENTH shall be construed to relieve any Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
Section 6. Amendment, Repeal, etc.
          Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation), the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with this Article TENTH."
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be signed by its duly authorized officer this 9 day of May, 2011.
th

Exhibit 3(b)
                    Pitney Bowes Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
                    1. That, pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and authority granted in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as theretofore amended, the Board of Directors of the Company, by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 1,700,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preference Stock, without par value (the "Series A Preference Stock"), and established the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and, on June 20, 1996 filed a Certificate of Designation with respect to such Series A Preference Stock in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. Said Certificate of Designation was subsequently integrated into the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company.
                    2. That no shares of said Series A Preference Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued subject to said Certificate of Designation.
                    3. That the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted the following resolutions:
                    4. That, accordingly, all matters set forth in the Certificate of Designation with respect to such Series A Preference Stock be, and hereby are, eliminated from the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Company.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Pitney Bowes Inc. has caused this Certificate to be signed by its duly authorized officer this 9 day of May, 2011.
th

Exhibit 3(c)
Pitney Bowes Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
          
First
:-
That the name of the Corporation is Pitney Bowes Inc.
          
Second
:-
The address of the Corporation's registered office in Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware, and the name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
          
Third
:-
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
          
Fourth
:-
The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 485,600,000 shares, divided into 600,000 shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock with the par value of $50.00 per share (hereinafter called Preferred Stock'), 5,000,000 shares of Preference Stock without par value (hereinafter called Preference Stock'), and 480,000,000 shares of Common Stock with the par value of $1.00 per share (hereinafter called Common Stock'). Subject to the provisions of law, the Corporation may issue shares of its Preferred Stock, Preference Stock and Common Stock, respectively, from time to time and any securities convertible into, warrants, options or rights to subscribe for, any such class or classes (or any series of any thereof), for such consideration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, which is hereby expressly authorized to fix the same in its absolute and uncontrolled discretion subject as aforesaid. Shares of Preference Stock without par value for which consideration so fixed has been paid or delivered to the Corporation shall be deemed fully paid stock and shall not be liable to any further call or assessment thereon and the holders of such shares shall not be liable for any further demands in respect of such shares. The Corporation may issue shares of its Preferred Stock, Preference Stock and Common Stock and any securities convertible into, or warrants, options or rights to subscribe for, such class or classes (or any series of any thereof) without offering the same to the holders of its outstanding capital stock. The minimum amount of capital with which the Corporation shall commence business shall not be less than $100,000.
A. Issuance in Series
.
          (1) The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and
qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as are stated and expressed herein and in any resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series adopted by the Board of Directors as hereinafter provided.
          (2) Authority is hereby expressly vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of this Article Fourth, to authorize the issue of one or more series of Preferred Stock and with respect to each series to fix, by resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series,
          (3) Each share of any one series of Preferred Stock shall be identical with all other shares of such series in all respects, except that shares of any one series issued at different times may differ as to the dates from which dividends thereon shall accumulate. All series of Preferred Stock shall rank equally and be identical in all respects except as permitted by the foregoing provisions of this subheading A.
B. Dividend Rights and Restrictions.
          (1) The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of the assets of the Corporations legally available therefor, cumulative dividends at the respective rates per annum fixed by the Board of Directors for the shares of the respective series, and no more, payable on such dates as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors for the shares of the respective series. Such dividends shall be cumulative as to each share from the date fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (2) under subheading A of this heading I.
          (2) No full dividend shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on the Preferred Stock of any series for any dividend period unless full cumulative dividends have been, or contemporaneously are,
declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on all the outstanding Preferred Stock of all series for all dividend periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full dividend. When dividends are not paid in full as aforesaid an all shares of all series of the Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, any dividend payments on the Preferred Stock, including accumulations, if any, shall be paid to the holders of shares of all series of the Preferred Stock ratably in proportion to the respective sums which such holders would receive if all dividends thereon accrued to the date of payment were declared and paid in full. Accumulations of dividends shall not bear interest.
          (3) No dividend (other than a dividend in Common Stock or in any other class of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock as to assets and dividends) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon the Common Stock or upon any other class of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock as to assets or dividends, nor shall any Common Stock of the Corporation nor any other class of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock as to assets or dividends, be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock as to assets and dividends) or any Subsidiary thereof (as defined under subheading G of this heading I), while any of the Preferred Stock is outstanding, unless, in each case.
C. Liquidation Rights.
          (1) Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the shares of Preferred Stock of each series shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation (whether capital or surplus) the following amounts, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or on any other class of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock as to assets:
          (2) The sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall be deemed a voluntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation for the purposes of this subheading C, but the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Corporation, if consented to by the holders of 66 2/3% of all the shares of Preferred Stock at the time outstanding as provided in paragraph (3) under
subheading E of this heading I (or if, by reason of the provisions of sub paragraph (c) of such paragraph (3), not requiring such consent), shall not be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this subheading C or for the purposes of subheading B or heading II of this Article Fourth.
          (3) After the payment to the holders of the Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts aforesaid, the holders of the Preferred Stock as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
          (4) If the assets distributable on such dissolution, liquidation or winding up, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to permit the payment to the holders of the Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts aforesaid, then such assets or the proceeds thereof shall be distributed among the holders of the Preferred Stock ratably in proportion to the respective amounts the holders of such shares of stock would be entitled to receive if they were paid the full preferential amounts aforesaid.
D. Redemption.
          (1) The Corporation shall have the right to redeem the Preferred Stock of any series at any time, either in whole or in such portions as from time to time the Board of Directors may determine, at the par value thereof, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends, thereon to the date fixed for redemption (hereinafter referred to as the "Redemption Date") and in addition thereto the amount of such premium, if any, payable upon such redemption as shall be fixed for the shares of such series by the Board of Directors (the total sum so payable upon any redemption being hereinafter referred to as the "Redemption Price").
          (2) At its election, the Corporation, on or prior to the Redemption Date, may deposit the aggregate of the Redemption Price of the shares to be redeemed with a bank or trust company in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York having a capital and surplus (as shown by its latest published statement) of at least $5,000,000 (hereinafter referred to as the "Depositary") designated by the Board of Directors, in trust for payment to the holders of the Preferred Stock then to be redeemed.
          (3) In the event that less than all of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock of any series are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board of Directors and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Board of Directors or by such other method as may be approved by the Board of Directors to conform to any rule or regulation of the New York Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange upon which the Preferred Stock may at the time be listed.
          (4) Notice of any redemption of Preferred Stock, specifying the time and place of redemption, shall be mailed to each holder of record of the shares of Preferred Stock to be redeemed, at his address registered with the Corporation, not more than 60 nor less than 30 days prior to the Redemption Date; if less than all the shares owned by such shareholder are then to be redeemed, the notice shall also specify the number of shares thereof which are to be redeemed. Also, notice of any such redemption, specifying the number of shares of Preferred Stock to be redeemed and the time and place of redemption, and, if less than all the outstanding shares of any series are to be redeemed, the certificate numbers of the series to be redeemed, shall be published once, not more than 60 nor less than 30 days prior to the Redemption Date, in a daily newspaper printed in the English language and published and of general circulation in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York.
          (5) Notice of redemption having been so mailed and published, the shares of Preferred Stock therein designated for redemption shall not be entitled to any dividends accruing after the Redemption Date specified in such notice, unless default be made in the payment of the Redemption Price or in the deposit thereof as provided in paragraph (2) under this subheading D, and on such Redemption Date, or if the deposit provided for in paragraph (2) under this subheading D shall have been made and the Corporation shall have stated in such notice or redemption that the Redemption Price of such shares will be payable before the Redemption Date on an earlier date therein specified, then on such earlier date, all
rights of the respective holders of such shares as shareholders of the Corporation by reason of the ownership of such shares, shall cease, except any unexpired conversion or exchange right and the right to receive the Redemption Price of such shares upon presentation and surrender of the respective certificates representing such shares, and such shares shall not after such Redemption Date or after such earlier date, as the case may be, be deemed to be outstanding. In case less than all the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof.
          (6) Any funds deposited with the Depositary as provided in paragraph (2) under this subheading D for the redemption of Preferred Stock which shall not be required for such redemption by reason of the exercise, subsequent to the date of such deposit, of any right of conversion or exchange, or otherwise, shall be returned to the Corporation forthwith. Any funds deposited with the Depositary as aforesaid for the redemption of shares of Preferred Stock remaining unclaimed at the end of six years from and after the Redemption Date in respect of which such funds were deposited shall be returned to the Corporation forthwith and thereafter the holders of such shares of Preferred Stock shall look only to the Corporation for the payment of the Redemption Price thereof. Any interest accrued on any funds deposited with the Depositary shall belong to the Corporation and shall be paid to it from time to time on demand.
          (7) The provisions of the subheading D shall apply to redemptions made for the purpose of complying with the requirements of any retirements, purchase or sinking fund with respect to shares of any series of the Preferred Stock, provided, however, that the premium, if any, payable on any redemption for such retirement, purchase or sinking fund shall be as fixed for the shares of the particular series by the Board of Directors.
          (8) In order to facilitate the redemption of any shares of Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors is authorized to cause the transfer books of the Corporation to be closed as to the shares of the particular series to be redeemed.
          (9) Any shares of Preferred Stock which shall at any time have been redeemed, or which shall at any time have been surrendered for cancellation pursuant to any retirement, purchase or sinking fund with respect to any series of the Preferred Stock, or which shall have been converted or exchanged for shares of any other class of stock of the Corporation, shall, after such redemption, surrender, conversion or exchange, have the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series until such shares are designated as part of a particular series by the Board of Directors.
          (10) Regardless of any other provision hereof, if at any time the Corporation shall fail to pay dividends in full upon all the then outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, thereafter and until dividends in full shall have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment upon all such shares, the Corporation shall not redeem for any purpose any Preferred Stock unless all of the Preferred Stock at the time outstanding is simultaneously redeemed, and neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary shall purchase any Preferred Stock except in accordance with a purchase offer made to all holders of the Preferred Stock at the time outstanding upon the same terms (except that, if more than one series of Preferred Stock is at the time outstanding, the terms may include appropriate variations as between the respective series by reason of the differing provisions thereof); provided that the provisions of this paragraph (10) shall not prevent shares of Preferred Stock of any series acquired by the Corporation prior to any such failure to pay dividends in full from being applied at any time by the Corporation to the satisfaction of the requirements of any retirement, purchase or sinking fund with respect to such series of Preferred Stock.
E. Voting Rights.
          (1) Except as otherwise expressly provided by law and by paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) under this subheading E, the holders of shares of Preferred Stock shall have no right to vote for the election of directors or for any other purpose or on any other subject or to be represented at or to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders.
         (2) In the event that at any time, or from time to time,
thereafter the holders of the Preferred Stock of all series then outstanding shall be entitled to receive notice of all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors, and at each such meeting shall be entitled, voting separately as a class, to elect one-third of the total number of directors of the Corporation but not less than three directors. At any time after the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have become entitled as aforesaid to vote for the election of directors, a meeting of the stockholders for the election of new directors shall be called, upon the same notice as is required for the annual meeting of stockholders, by the Secretary of the Corporation upon the request of the holders of record of at least 10% of the shares of Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, or may be called, upon such notice, by the holders of record of at least 10% of the shares of Preferred Stock at the time outstanding. The term of office of the directors of the Corporation shall terminate upon the election of new directors at such meeting, and the new directors elected at such meeting shall serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors shall be elected, except as hereinafter provided in case the voting rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock for the election of directors shall cease. Such voting rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock for the election of directors shall continue until
          (i) all dividends on the Preferred Stock in arrears shall have been paid in full and dividends on the Preferred Stock for the current dividend period or periods shall have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment, and
          (ii) all amounts for the retirement or purchase of the Preferred Stock which the Corporation shall have failed to set apart or apply shall have been set apart in full or applied, as the case may be, in which event the voting rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock for the election of directors shall cease, subject to revival, as aforesaid upon the occurrence of any of the events specified in subdivisions (a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph (2). At any time after the holders of the Preferred Stock shall cease, as aforesaid, to be entitled to vote for the election of directors, a meeting of the stockholders for the election of new directors shall be called, upon the same notice as is required for the annual meeting of stockholders, by the Secretary of the Corporation upon the request of the holders of record of at least 10% of the shares of Common Stock at the time outstanding, or may be called, upon such notice, by the holders of record of at least 10% of the shares of Common Stock at the time outstanding. The term of office of the directors of the Corporation shall terminate upon the election of new directors at such meeting, and the new directors elected at such meeting shall serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors shall be elected, except as hereinabove provided in case the holders of the Preferred Stock shall again become entitled to vote for the election of directors.
          (3) Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares of Preferred Stock shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of the Preferred Stock of all series shall vote separately as a class, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating any one or more of the following (subject to the provisions of paragraph (5) under this subheading E applicable in case of the simultaneous redemption of all of the Preferred Stock at the time outstanding):
          (4) Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares of Preferred Stock shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least a majority of all of the shares of Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of the Preferred Stock of all series shall vote separately as a class, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating any one or more of the following (subject to the provisions of paragraph (5) under this subheading E applicable in case of the simultaneous redemption of all of the Preferred Stock at the time outstanding):
          (5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (3) and (4) under this subheading E, no vote or consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock shall be required to create, authorize or issue any shares of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking prior to or on a parity with the Preferred Stock as to dividends or assets or otherwise, if it is provided that no such prior or parity shares may be issued unless prior to or simultaneously with the issue thereof:
F. No Preemptive Rights.
None of the holders of shares of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled as such, as a matter of right, to purchase, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any new or additional shares of stock of the Corporation of any class, or any options or warrants to purchase, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any such new or additional shares, or any shares, notes, debentures, bonds or other securities convertible into or carrying options or warrants to purchase, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any such new or additional shares.
G. Definitions.
For the purposes of this heading I,
A. Dividend Rights.
               Subject to the prior rights of all classes of stock having prior rights as to dividends at the time outstanding, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors out of the assets of the Corporation legally available therefor, such dividends as may be declared from time to time by the Board of Directors.
B. Liquidation Rights.
               Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, after the payment in full of all preferential amounts to which the holders of outstanding shares of all classes of stock having prior rights thereto at the time outstanding shall be entitled, the remainder of the assets of the Corporation shall be distributed ratably among the holders of the shares of Common Stock at the time outstanding.
C. Voting Rights.
               At all meetings of the stockholders, each holder of record of Common Stock shall be entitled to vote and shall have one vote for each share held by him of record.
RESOLVED, that 240,000 shares of the total authorized amount of 600,000 shares of Cumulative Preferred Stock be issued and constitute a single series designated "4% Convertible Cumulative Preferred Stock" (hereinafter called the "Series"), such Series to have the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, set forth in heading I of Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, and hereinafter set forth:
          1. The dividend rate on the Series shall be 4% per annum, and dividends thereon shall be payable quarterly on the first days of February, May, August and November in each year. Dividends on shares of the Series shall be cumulative from and after the respective dates of issue thereof.
          2. The premium, over and above the par value thereof and accrued dividends thereon, payable upon redemption of shares of the Series pursuant to the provisions of subheading D of heading I of Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation as amended, shall be the following amounts per share:
          3. The premium, over and above the par value thereof and accrued dividends thereon, which shares of the Series shall be entitled to receive upon the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company pursuant to the provisions of subheading C of heading I of Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation as amended, shall be the same premium, if any, as would be payable pursuant to the provisions of the foregoing paragraph (2) of this resolution if all such shares were called for redemption on the date of the final distribution to the holders of the Series.
          4. The holders of shares of this Series shall have the right, at their option, to convert such shares into shares of Common Stock of the Company at any time on and subject to the following terms and conditions:
          (1) The shares of this Series shall be convertible at the office of any Transfer Agent, and at such other office or offices, if any, as the Board of Directors may designate, into full paid and non-assessable shares (calculated as to each conversion to the nearest 1/100th of a share) of Common Stock of the Company, at the conversion price, determined as hereinafter provided, in effect at the time of conversion, each shares of this Series being taken at $50 for the purpose of such conversion. The price at which shares of Common Stock shall be delivered upon conversion (herein called the "conversion price") shall be initially $70 per share of Common Stock. The conversion price shall be reduced in certain instances as provided in paragraphs (3), (9) and (10) below, and shall be increased in certain instances as provided in paragraph (10) below. No payment or adjustment shall be made upon any conversion on account of any dividends accrued on the shares of this Series surrendered for conversion or on account of any dividends on the Common Stock issued upon such conversion.
          (2) In order to convert shares of this Series into Common Stock the holder thereof shall surrender at any office hereinabove mentioned the certificate or certificates therefor, duly endorsed to the Company or in blank, and give written notice to the Company at said office that he elects to convert such shares. Shares of this Series shall be deemed to have been converted immediately prior to the close of business on the day of the surrender of such shares for conversion as provided above, and the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock at such time. As promptly as practicable on or after the conversion date, the Company shall issue and shall deliver at said office a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, together with a scrip certificate for, or cash in lieu of, any fraction of a share, as hereinafter provided, to the person or persons entitled to receive the same. In case shares of this Series are called for redemption, the right to convert such shares shall cease and terminate at the close of business on the Redemption Date, unless default shall be made in payment of the redemption price.
          (3) In case the conversion price in effect immediately prior to the close of business on any day shall exceed by 50 cents or more the amount determined at the close of business on such day by dividing:
          (i) a sum equal to (a) 4,565,687 multiplied by $70 (being the initial conversion price), plus (b) the aggregate of the amounts of all consideration received by the Company upon the issuance of Additional Shares of Common Stock (as hereinafter defined), minus (c) the aggregate of the amounts of all dividends and other distributions which have been paid or made after May 1, 1967 on Common Stock of the Company, other than in cash out of its earned surplus or in Common Stock of the Company, by
          (ii) the sum of (a) 4,565,687 and (b) the number of Additional Shares of Common Stock which shall have been issued,
the conversion price shall be reduced, effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the next succeeding day, by an amount equal to the amount by which such conversion price shall exceed the amount so determined. The foregoing amount of 50 cents (or such amount as theretofore adjusted) shall be subject to adjustment as provided in paragraphs (9) and (10) below, and such amount (or such amount as theretofore adjusted) is referred to in such paragraphs as the "Differential Amount."
          (4) The term "Additional Shares of Common Stock" as used herein shall mean all shares of Common Stock issued by the Company after May 1, 1967 (including shares deemed to be "Additional Shares of Common Stock" pursuant to paragraph (10) below), whether or not subsequently reacquired or retired by the Company, other than:
          (i) shares issued upon conversion of shares of this Series;
          (ii) shares issued upon exercise of options granted or to be granted pursuant to the Company's Stock Purchase Plans as in effect on May 1, 1967, in an aggregate number of shares not exceeding the number of shares issuable under such Plans as in effect on such date (or such number of shares is adjusted pursuant to anti-dilution provisions of such Plans); and
          (iii) shares issued by way of dividend or other distribution on shares of Common Stock excluded from the definition of Additional Shares of Common Stock by the foregoing clauses (1) or (ii) or this clause (iii) or shares of Common Stock resulting from any subdivision or combination of shares of Common Stock so excluded.
               The sale or other disposition of any shares of Common Stock or other securities held in the treasury of the Company shall not be deemed an issuance thereof.
          (5) In case of the issuance of Additional Shares of Common Stock for a consideration part or all of which shall be cash, the amount of the cash consideration therefor shall be deemed to be the amount of cash received by the Company for such shares (or, if such Additional Shares of Common Stock are offered by the Company for subscription, the subscription price, or, if such Additional Shares of Common Stock are sold to underwriters or dealers for public offering without a subscription offering, the initial public offering price), without deducting therefrom any compensation or discount in the sale, underwriting or purchase thereof by underwriters or dealers or others performing similar services or for any expenses incurred in connection therewith.
          (6) In case of the issuance (otherwise than as a dividend or other distribution on any stock of the Company or upon conversion or exchange of other securities of the Company) of Additional Shares of Common Stock for a consideration part or all of which shall be other than cash, the amount of the consideration therefor other than cash shall be deemed to be the value of such consideration as determined by the Board of Directors, irrespective of the accounting treatment thereof. The reclassification of securities other than Common Stock into securities including Common Stock shall be deemed to involve the issuance for a consideration other than cash of such Common Stock immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such Common Stock.
          (7) Additional Shares of Common Stock issuable by way of dividend or other distribution on any class of capital stock of the Company shall be deemed to have been issued without consideration, and shall be deemed to have been issued immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution, except that if the total number of shares constituting such dividend or other distribution exceeds five percent of the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution such additional shares of Common
Stock shall be deemed to have been issued immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution.
               A dividend or other distribution in cash or in property (including any dividend or other distribution in securities other than Common Stock) shall be deemed to have been paid or made immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution and the amount of such dividend or other distribution in property shall be deemed to be the value of such property as of the date of the adoption of the resolution declaring such dividend or other distribution, as determined by the Board of Directors at or as of that date. In the case of any such dividend or other distribution on Common Stock which consists of securities which are convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock, such securities shall be deemed to have been issued for a consideration equal to the value thereof as so determined.
               If, upon the payment of any dividend or other distribution in cash or in property (excluding Common Stock but including all other securities), outstanding shares of Common Stock are cancelled or required to be surrendered for cancellation, on a pro rata basis, the excess of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior thereto over the number to be outstanding immediately thereafter (less that portion of such excess attributable to the cancellation of shares excluded from the definition of Additional Shares of Common Stock by clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (4) above), shall be deducted from the sum computed pursuant to clause (ii) of paragraph (3) above for the purposes of all determinations under such paragraph (3) made immediately prior to the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution and at any time thereafter.
               The reclassification (including any reclassification upon a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing corporation) of Common Stock into securities including other than Common Stock shall be deemed to involve (a) a distribution on Common Stock of such securities other than Common Stock made immediately prior to the close of business on the effective date of the reclassification, and (b) a combination or subdivision, as the case may be, of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such reclassification into the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately thereafter.
               The issuance by the Company of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company shall not be deemed to be a dividend or distribution of any kind.
          (8) In case of the issuance of Additional Shares of Common Stock upon conversion or exchange of other securities of the Company, the amount of the consideration received by the Company for such Additional Shares of Common Stock shall be deemed to be the total of (a) the amount of the consideration, if any, received by the Company upon the issuance of such other securities, plus (b) the amount of the consideration, if any, other than such other securities, received by the Company (except in adjustment of interest or dividends) upon such conversion or exchange. In determining the amount of the consideration received by the Company upon the issuance of such other securities (i) the amount of the consideration in cash and other than cash shall be determined pursuant to paragraphs (5), (6) and (7) above, and (ii) if securities of the same class or series of a class as such other securities were issued for different amounts of consideration, or if some were issued for no consideration, then the amount of the consideration received by the Company upon the issuance of each of the securities of such class or series as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the average amount of the consideration received by the Company upon the issuance of all the securities of such class or series, as the case may be.
          (9) In case Additional Shares of Common Stock are issued as a dividend or other distribution on any class of capital stock of the Company, and the total number of shares constituting such dividend or other distribution exceeds five percent of the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other distribution, the conversion price and the Differential Amount in effect at the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination shall be reduced by multiplying each of them by
a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such determination and the denominator shall be the sum of such number of shares and the total number of shares constituting such dividend or other distribution, such reductions to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for such determination. For the purposes of this paragraph (9), the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock (other than shares of Common Stock which, upon issuance, would not constitute Additional Shares of Common Stock). The Company will not pay any dividend or make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company.
          (10) In case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be subdivided into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, the conversion price and the Differential Amount in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective shall each be proportionately reduced, and, conversely, in case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall each be combined into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, the conversion price and the Differential Amount in effect at the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such combination becomes effective shall each be proportionately increased, such reductions or increases as the case may be, to become effective immediately after the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision or combination becomes effective. In the event of any such subdivision, the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately thereafter, to the extent of the excess thereof over the number outstanding immediately prior thereto (less that portion of such excess attributable to the subdivision of shares excluded from the definition of Additional Shares of Common Stock by clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (4) above), shall be deemed to be "Additional Shares of Common Stock" and to have been issued immediately after the opening of business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision shall have become effective and without consideration. In the event of any such combination, the excess of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior thereto over the number outstanding immediately thereafter (less that portion of such excess attributable to the combination of shares excluded from the definition of Additional Shares of Common Stock by clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (4) above), shall be deducted from the sum computed pursuant to clause (ii) of paragraph (3) above for the purposes of all determinations under such paragraph (3) made on any day after the day upon which such combination becomes effective. Shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company and shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock (other than shares of Common Stock which, upon issuance, would not constitute Additional Shares of Common Stock), shall be considered outstanding for the purposes of this paragraph (10).
          (11) Whenever the conversion price is adjusted as herein provided:
          (a) the Company shall compute the adjusted conversion price in accordance with this Section 4 and shall prepare a certificate signed by the Treasurer of the Company setting forth the adjusted conversion price and showing in reasonable detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based, including a statement of the consideration received or to be received by the Company for, and the amount of, any Additional Shares of Common Stock issued since the last such adjustment, and such certificate shall forthwith be filed with the Transfer Agent or Agents for this Series; and
          (b) a notice stating that the conversion price has been adjusted and setting forth the adjusted conversion price shall forthwith be required, and as soon as practicable after it is required, such notice shall be published at least once in a daily newspaper in the City of New York, N.Y., and shall be mailed to the holders of record of the outstanding shares of this Series; provided, however, that if within ten days after the completion of mailing of such a notice, an additional notice is required, such additional notice shall be deemed to be required pursuant to this clause (b) as of the opening of business on the tenth day after such completion of mailing and shall set forth the conversion price as adjusted at such opening of business, and upon the publication and mailing of such additional notice no other notice need be given of any adjustment in the conversion price occurring at or prior to such opening of business and after the time that the next preceding notice given by publication and mail became required.
          (12) In case:
          (a) the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock payable otherwise than in cash out of its earned surplus; or
          (b) the Company shall authorize the granting to the holders of its Common Stock of rights to subscribe for or purchase any shares of capital stock of any class or of any other rights; or
          (c) of any reclassification of the capital stock of the Company (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding shares of Common Stock), or of any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
          (d) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company; then the Company shall cause to be mailed to the Transfer Agent or Agents for this Series and to the holders of record of the outstanding shares of this Series, at least twenty days (or ten days in any case specified in clause (a) or (b) above) prior to the applicable record date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution or rights, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up is expected to became effective, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
          (13) The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available, free from pre-emptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the shares of this Series, the full number of shares of Common Stock then deliverable upon the conversion of all shares of this Series then outstanding.
          (14) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion, but, instead of any fraction of a share which would otherwise be issuable, the Company shall, at its option, either
          (a) issue non-dividend bearing and non-voting scrip certificates for such fraction, such certificates to be in such form and to contain such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors shall at any time or from time to time in its discretion fix and determine, provided that the certificates shall be exchangeable, within such period (which shall end not less than two years following the date of issue thereof) as the Board of Directors shall determine, together with other scrip certificates issued upon conversion of shares of this Series, for stock certificates representing a full share or shares, and upon the expiration of such period shall be exchangeable for cash, as provided in the scrip certificates, within such further period (which shall end not less than six years following the date of issue of such certificates) as the Board of Directors shall determine; or
          (b) pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fraction in an amount equal to the same fraction of the market price per share of Common Stock (as determined by the Board of Directors) at the close of business on the day of conversion.
          (15) The Company will pay any and all taxes that may be payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of shares of this Series pursuant hereto. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that in which the shares of this Series so converted were registered, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax, or has established, to the satisfaction of the Company, that such tax has been paid.
          (16) For the purpose of this Section 4, the term "Common Stock" shall include any stock of any class of the Company which has no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, and which is not subject to redemption by the Company. However, shares issuable on conversion of shares of this Series shall include only shares of the class designated as Common Stock of the Company as of May 1, 1967, or shares of any class or classes resulting from any reclassification or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and which are not subject to redemption by the Company; provided that if at any time there shall be more than one such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so issuable shall be substantially in the proportion which the total number of shares of such class resulting from all such reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all such classes resulting from all such reclassifications.
          5. So long as any shares of the Series are outstanding, the Company shall not declare any cash dividend on its Common Stock, nor shall be Company or any Subsidiary purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for a cash consideration any shares of such Common Stock, if, after giving effect to the proposed declaration or acquisition, (i) the aggregate amount of all cash dividends on capital stock of the Company of all classes paid or made after December 31, 1966, plus (ii) the excess, if any, of the aggregate amount of all cash payments made subsequent to such date on account of the purchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of such Common Stock over the aggregate amount of the net cash proceeds to the Company from sales subsequent to such date of shares of such Common Stock, would exceed $10,000,000 plus (or minus in the case of a deficit) the consolidated net income of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the period from December 31, 1966 to the end of the last calendar month preceding the date of such proposed declaration or acquisition. For the purposes of this paragraph, Common Stock issued upon conversion of other securities shall be deemed issued for cash amounting, where such other securities were evidences of indebtedness, to their principal amount, and where preferred stock, to their involuntary liquidation preference.
A. Issuance in Series.
          The Preference Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series and in such amounts as may be determined by the Board of Directors. The designations, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional, conversion and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Preference Stock of each series shall be such as are fixed therein and, to the extent not fixed therein, shall be such, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article Fourth, as may be fixed by the Board of Directors, authority so to do being hereby expressly granted, and stated in a resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of such series of Preference Stock (herein called Directors' Resolution'). The Preference Stock shall rank as to dividends and assets junior to the Preferred Stock but prior to the Common Stock and to any other capital stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized, other than capital stock which shall by its terms rank prior to or on a parity with the Preference Stock and which shall be authorized pursuant to paragraph (3) under subheading E of this heading IV of this Article Fourth. Each share of Preference Stock shall in all cases rank as to dividends and assets on a parity with each other share of Preference Stock, irrespective of series, except that shares of a series may rank as to dividends or assets, or both, junior to shares of one or more other series if by express terms of the Directors' Resolution providing for the issuance of such junior series the junior series is expressly made junior to the senior series. No preferential dividend with respect to any quarterly dividend period shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any series of Preference Stock, or be paid or set apart for payment as part of the redemption price of any series of Preference Stock, unless at the same time a dividend in like proportion to the respective preferential dividend rates for each other series ranking equally or on a parity therewith and entitled to receive dividends for such period shall likewise be declared or paid or set apart for payment on each such other series then outstanding, and no amounts shall be paid or set apart for payment on any series of Preference Stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation unless at the same time amounts in like proportion to the respective preferential amounts to which the shares of each other series ranking equally or on a parity
therewith are entitled shall likewise be paid or set apart for payment on each such other series then outstanding.
B. Dividends.
               The holders of Preference Stock of each series shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of any funds legally available for that purpose, cumulative preferential dividends in cash at the rate fixed with respect to such series in the related Directors' Resolution, and no more. Such dividends shall accrue from the date or dates fixed with respect to such series in the related Directors' Resolution, and shall be cumulative, so that unless such dividends shall be declared and paid or set apart for payment in full for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period, no dividends shall be declared or paid upon, and no assets shall be distributed to or set apart for, the shares of any class of stock ranking junior to the Preference Stock as to dividends or assets. Accrued and unpaid dividends on the Preference Stock shall not bear interest. The term "accrued and unpaid dividends" as used herein with respect to the Preference Stock shall mean dividends on outstanding Preference Stock at the rates fixed for the respective series thereof, from the respective dates from which such dividends shall accrue to the date as of which accrued and unpaid dividends are being determined, less the aggregate of dividends theretofore declared and paid or set apart for payment upon such outstanding Preference Stock.
C. Liquidation Rights.
               In the event of any voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, then, subject to the provisions of paragraph (1) under subheading C of heading I of this Article Fourth, the holders of Preference Stock of each series shall be entitled to receive, from the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders, such preferential amount, in cash, as may be specifically fixed with respect to such series in the related Directors' Resolution, and in the event of any involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, then, subject to the provisions of paragraph (1) under subheading C of heading I of this Article Fourth, the holders of Preference Stock of all series shall be entitled to receive, from the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders, a preferential amount in cash as may be specifically fixed with respect to such series in the related Directors' Resolution, plus, in each case, whether voluntary or involuntary, a further preferential amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date payment is made available to the holders of the Preference Stock; subject as to all of the foregoing to the provisions of any Directors' Resolution to the effect that any series of Preference Stock shall be junior as to dividends or assets to any one or more other series thereof, all of such preferential amounts shall be paid or set apart for payment before the payment or setting apart for payment of any amount for, or the distribution of any assets of the Corporation to, the holders of any class of stock ranking junior to the Preference Stock as to dividends or assets.
D. Redemption.
               If and to the extent so provided in the related Directors' Resolution and subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) under subheading B of heading I of this Article Fourth, the whole or any part of the Preference Stock of any series may be redeemed at the option of the Corporation at any time or from time to time at such redemption price or prices per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date designated for redemption, as may be fixed with respect to such series in the related Directors' Resolution, and upon such other terms and conditions as may be fixed with respect to such series in such Directors' Resolution. In the event that at any time less than all the Preference Stock of any series outstanding is to be redeemed, the shares to be redeemed may be selected pro rata, or by lot, or by such other equitable method as may be determined by the Board of Directors. Notice of redemption shall be mailed or caused to be mailed by the Corporation, addressed to each holder of record of stock to be redeemed, at his last address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation, at least 30 days prior to the date designated for redemption. If such notice of redemption shall have been duly mailed, or irrevocable instructions to effect such mailing shall have been given to the transfer agent or agents for such stock, and if on or before the redemption date named in such notice all funds
necessary for such redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation in trust for the account of the holders of the Preference Stock to be redeemed, so as to be available therefor, then, from and after the mailing of such notice or the giving of such irrevocable instructions and the setting aside of such funds, notwithstanding that any certificate for shares of Preference Stock so called for redemption shall not have been surrendered for cancellation, the shares represented thereby shall no longer be deemed outstanding, and the holder of such certificate or certificates shall have with respect to such stock no rights in or with respect to the Corporation except the right to receive the redemption price thereof, without interest, upon the surrender of such certificate or certificates, and the right, if and to the extent granted by the related Directors' Resolution, to convert such stock not later than the date designated for redemption into other securities of the Corporation; and after the date designated for redemption such stock shall not be transferable on the books of the Corporation except to the Corporation.
E. Voting Rights.
          (1) Except as otherwise provided by law or by the provisions of this heading IV or by a Directors' Resolution, the Preference Stock shall not entitle the holder thereof to vote upon or consent to any matter or for any purpose, or to be represented at or to receive notice of any meeting of stockholders.
          (2) (a) If at any time dividends on any Preference Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a "default period") which shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Preference Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each default period, the holders of Preference Stock, voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect two Directors.
          (b) During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Preference Stock may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (c) of this paragraph (2) or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of stockholders, provided that neither such voting right nor the right of the holders of Preference Stock as hereinafter provided to increase in certain cases the authorized number of Directors shall be exercised unless the holders of 25% in number of shares of Preference Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy. The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Preference Stock of such voting right. At any meeting at which the holders of Preference Stock shall exercise such voting right initially during an existing default period, they shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect Directors to fill such vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to two Directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect two Directors. If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preference Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of Directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number. After the holders of the Preference Stock shall have exercised their right to elect Directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of Directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preference Stock as herein provided.
          (c) Unless the holders of Preference Stock shall, during an existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect Directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preference Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of Preference Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the President, a Vice-President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preference Stock are entitled to vote shall be given to each holder of record of Preference Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to him at his last address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request; or in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preference Stock outstanding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subparagraph (c), no such special meeting shall be called during
the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
          (d) In any default period the holders of Common Stock, and other classes of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to elect the whole number of Directors until the holders of Preference Stock shall have exercised their right to elect Directors as a class, after the exercise of which right (i) the Directors so elected by the holders of Preference Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (ii) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph (2) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock which elected the Director whose office shall have become vacant. References in this paragraph (2) to Directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include Directors elected by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (ii) of the foregoing sentence.
          (e) Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (i) the right of the holders of Preference Stock as a class to elect Directors shall cease, (ii) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of Preference Stock as a class shall terminate, and (iii) the number of Directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the by-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (b) of this paragraph (2) (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the by-laws). Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (ii) and (iii) in the preceding sentence, may be filled by a majority of the remaining Directors.
          (3) As long as any Preference Stock is outstanding: (a) the Corporation shall not, without the consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Preference Stock, irrespective of series, either given by vote in person or by proxy at a meeting of stockholders called for that purpose, or given in writing, (i) increase the authorized amount of the Preference Stock or (ii) increase the authorized amount of any previously authorized class of stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or assets on an equality with the Preference Stock or (iii) authorize or create any class of stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or assets on an equality with the Preference Stock; and (b) the Corporation shall not, without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Preference Stock, irrespective of series, either given by vote in person or by proxy at a meeting of stockholders called for that purpose, or given in writing, create, authorize or increase the authorized amount of any class of stock of the Corporation having preference or priority as to dividends or assets over the Preference Stock.
          (4) Any action specified in paragraph (3) of this subheading E as requiring the consent therein specified of the holders of Preference Stock may be taken with such consent and such additional vote or consent, if any, of stockholders as may from time to time be required by this Article Fourth or by law.
          RESOLVED, that there is hereby established a series of Preference Stock, designated $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock. This series shall consist of 3,102,708 shares, and to the extent that the designations, voting powers, preferences, optional, conversion and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, are not fixed by the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, they are hereby fixed as follows:
          (a) The Preference Stock of this series shall be designated "$2.12 Convertible Preference Stock".
          (b) The preferential dividend rate shall be $2.12 per share per annum; holders of record of shares of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be entitled to receive dividends, when and as declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor, in preference to and in priority over shares of other series of Preference Stock which are expressly made junior to the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock as to dividends and, in the absence of such express provisions, on a parity with shares of such other series. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly on the first days of January, April, July and
October of each year, commencing on the first such date which is at least 10 days after the date of original issue.
          (c) Such dividends shall accrue from the date of original issue, which, with respect to the shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock to be issued pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 20, 1978 between Dictaphone Corporation and PB Holding Corporation ("PB"), shall be the Effective Date, as defined therein.
          (d) The shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
          (e) The $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation by resolution of its Board of Directors, at any time and from time to time on or after July 11984 at the following redemption prices, in each case plus accrued and unpaid dividends to the date fixed for redemption:
,
If redeemed during the 12-month period beginning July 1,
               (f) The preferential amount which holders of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be entitled to receive from the assets of the Corporation in the event of any voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation shall be the optional redemption price then in effect, except that prior to July 1, 1984, such holders shall be entitled to receive $29 per share, or, in the event of any involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, $28 per share, plus in each case an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (as defined in the Certificate of Incorporation) to the date payment is made available to the holders of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock. For purposes of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall rank in preference to and priority over shares of other series of Preference Stock which are expressly made junior to this series as to assets and, in the absence of such express provisions, on a parity with shares of such other series.
               (g) In addition to voting rights provided under subheading E of heading IV of Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation, shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall have voting rights as provided in this paragraph (g);
          (1) At any annual or special meeting of stockholders at which holders of Common Stock are entitled to vote, each holder of shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be entitled to cast a number of votes equal to the number of whole and fractional shares of Common Stock into which such holder's shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock are convertible on the record date for the meeting. The same record date shall be used for all classes of stock entitled to vote at any such meeting.
          (2) Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall vote together as a separate class, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating the amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of this resolution or of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as now or hereafter amended, or of any certificate of designation relating to any other series of Preference Stock, so as to affect adversely the powers, preferences or rights of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock.
          (h) The $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be convertible, at the option of the holders thereof, at any time at the offices of the duly appointed transfer agent for the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock, if any, or at such other office as the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine, into fully paid and non-assessable shares (calculated to the nearest 1/100 of a share) of Common Stock of the Corporation at the rate of one share of Common Stock for each share of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock; provided, however, that in case of the redemption of any shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock, such right of conversion shall cease and terminate, as to the shares called for redemption, at the close of business on the day next prior to the date fixed for redemption, unless default shall be made in the payment of the redemption price. The rate at which shares of Common Stock shall be deliverable in exchange for shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock upon conversion thereof is hereinafter referred to as the conversion rate' for the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock. The conversion rate shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in certain instances as hereinafter provided, except that no adjustment shall be made unless by reason of the happening of any one or more of the events hereinafter specified, the conversion rate then in effect shall be changed by 1 % or more, but any adjustment of less than 1 % that would otherwise be required then to be made shall be carried forward and shall be made at the time of and together with any subsequent adjustment which, together with any adjustment or adjustments so carried forward, amounts to 1 % or more, provided that such adjustment shall be made in all events (regardless of whether or not the amount thereof or the cumulative amount thereof amounts to 1 % or more upon the happening of one or more of the events specified in either subparagraph (1) or subparagraph (4) of this paragraph (h). Upon conversion the Corporation shall make no payment or adjustment on account of dividends accrued or in arrears on the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock surrendered for conversion.
          Before any holder of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be entitled to convert the same into Common Stock, he shall surrender the certificate or certificates for such $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock at the office appointed as aforesaid, which certificate or certificates, if the Corporation shall so request, shall be duly endorsed to the Corporation or in blank, or accompanied by proper instruments of transfer to the Corporation or in blank, and shall give written notice to the Corporation that he elects so to convert said $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock and shall state in writing therein the name or names in which he wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock to be issued.
          The Corporation will, as soon as practicable after such surrender of certificates for $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock accompanied by the written notice and the statement above prescribed, issue and deliver at the office appointed as aforesaid, to the person for whose account such $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock was so surrendered, or to his nominee or nominees, certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock to which he shall be entitled as aforesaid, together with a cash adjustment for any fraction of a share as hereinafter stated, if not evenly convertible. Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, such conversion shall be deemed to have been made as of the date of such surrender of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock to be converted, and the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock on such date. The Corporation shall not be required to convert, and no surrender of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be effective for that purpose, while the stock transfer books of the Corporation are closed for any purpose; but the surrender of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock for conversion during any period while such books are so closed shall become effective for conversion immediately upon the reopening of such books, as if the conversion had been made on the date such $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock was surrendered, and at the conversion rate in effect at the date of such surrender.
          The conversion rate for the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as follows:
          (1) If the Corporation shall at any time pay a dividend on its Common Stock in Common Stock, subdivide its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a larger number of shares or combine its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, the conversion rate in effect immediately prior thereto shall be adjusted so that each share of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall thereafter be convertible into the number of shares of Common Stock which the holder of a share of
$2.12 Convertible Preference Stock would have been entitled to receive after the happening of any of the events described above had such share been converted immediately prior to the happening of such event. An adjustment made pursuant to this subparagraph (1) shall become effective retroactively to the record date in the case of a dividend and shall become effective on the effective date in the case of a subdivision or combination.
          (2) If the Corporation shall issue rights or warrants to all holders of shares of Common Stock for the purpose of entitling them (for a period not exceeding 45 days from the date of issuance) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the average market price per share (determined as provided below) of the Common Stock on the record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants, then in each such case unless the holders of shares of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be permitted to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock on the same basis as though such shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock had been converted into shares of Common Stock immediately prior to such record date, the number of shares of Common Stock into which each share of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall thereafter be convertible shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares of Common Stock into which each share of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock was convertible on the day immediately preceding such record date by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such record date and the number of additional shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase, and the denominator of which shall be the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such record date and the number of shares of Common Stock which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered would purchase at such average market price. Such adjustment shall become effective retroactively immediately after such record date.
          For the purpose of any computation under this paragraph (h), the average market price per share of Common Stock on any date shall be the average of the daily closing prices for the 30 consecutive trading days commencing 45 trading days before the date in question. The closing price for each day shall be the last sales price regular way or, in the case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices regular way in either case on the Composite Tape.
          (3) If the Corporation shall distribute to all holders of shares of Common Stock any assets (other than any dividend payable solely in cash), any rights to subscribe (other than those referred to in subparagraph (2) above) or any evidence of indebtedness or other securities of the Corporation (other than Common Stock) then in each such case the number of shares of Common Stock into which each share of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall thereafter be convertible shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares of Common Stock into which each share of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock was theretofore convertible on the day immediately preceding the record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the average market price per share (determined as provided in subparagraph (2) above) of the Common Stock on such record date and the denominator of which shall be such average market price per share less the then fair market value (as determined in a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, which shall be conclusive evidence of such fair market value) of the portion of the assets or evidence of indebtedness or securities so distributed or of such subscription rights applicable to one share of Common Stock. Such adjustment shall become effective retroactively immediately after such record date.
          (4) In case of any capital reorganization or any reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation or in case of the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with another corporation or in the case of any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property of the Corporation, each share of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall thereafter be convertible into the number of shares of stock or other securities or property receivable upon such capital reorganization, reclassification of capital stock, consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, as the case may be, by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock was convertible immediately prior to such capital reorganization, reclassification of capital stock, consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance; and, in any case, appropriate adjustment (as determined by the Board of Directors) shall be
made in the application of the provisions herein set forth with respect to rights and interests thereafter of the holders of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock to the end that the provisions set forth herein (including the specified changes in and other adjustments of the conversion rate) shall thereafter be applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to any shares of stock or other securities or other property thereafter deliverable upon the conversion of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock.
          (5) The Corporation may make such increases in the conversion rate, so as to increase the number of shares of Common Stock into which the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock may be converted, in addition to those required by paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) above, as it considers to be advisable in order that any event treated for Federal income tax purposes as a dividend of stock or stock rights shall not be taxable to the recipients.
          (6) Whenever the conversion rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Corporation shall forthwith file with any transfer agent for the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock appointed as aforesaid a certificate, signed by the President or one of the Vice Presidents of the Corporation and by its Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, stating the adjusted conversion rate determined as provided in this paragraph (h). Such certificate shall show in detail the facts requiring such adjustment. Whenever the conversion rate is adjusted, the Corporation will forthwith cause a notice stating the adjustment and the conversion rate as adjusted to be mailed to the respective holders of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock. Such transfer agent shall be under no duty to make any inquiry or investigation as to the statements contained in any such certificate or as to the manner in which any computation was made, but may accept such certificate as conclusive evidence of the statements therein contained, and such transfer agent shall be fully protected with respect to any and all acts done or action taken or suffered by it in reliance thereon. No transfer agent in its capacity as transfer agent shall be deemed to have any knowledge with respect to any change of capital structure of the Corporation unless and until it receives a notice thereof pursuant to the provisions of this subparagraph (5) and in default of any such notice such transfer agent may conclusively assume that there has been no such change.
          The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock, such number of shares as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all shares of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock from time to time outstanding. The Corporation shall from time to time, in accordance with the laws of Delaware, increase the authorized amount of its Common Stock if at any time the number of shares of Common Stock remaining unissued shall not be sufficient to permit the conversion of all the then outstanding $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock.
          No fractions of shares of Common Stock are to be issued upon conversion, but in lieu thereof the Corporation will pay therefor in cash based on the closing price (determined as provided in the last sentence of subparagraph (2) above) of the Common Stock on the Composite Tape on the business day next preceding the day of conversion.
          The Corporation will pay any and all issue and other taxes (other than taxes based on income) that may be payable in respect of any issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock pursuant hereto. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of Common Stock in a name other than that in which the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock so converted was registered, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax, or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid.
          (i) The stated value of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be $28 per share, and the entire consideration received by the Corporation upon issuance of the $2.12 Convertible Preference Stock shall be capital.
          Fifth
:-
This Corporation shall have perpetual existence.
          Sixth
:-
The private property of the stockholders shall not be subject to the payment of corporate debts to any extent whatsoever.
          Seventh
:-
PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
          (a) Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth hereof relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of the Directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by or pursuant to the By-Laws of the Corporation. Commencing with the annual meeting of stockholders in 2011, the Directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, shall be elected annually for terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting; provided, however, that Directors elected at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, Directors elected at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, and Directors elected at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.
Number, election and terms.
          (b) Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of Directors shall be given in the manner provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
Stockholder nomination of director candidates.
          (c) . Except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth hereof relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any Director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
Newly created directorship and vacancies
          (d) . Subject to the rights of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect Directors under specified circumstances, any Director may be removed from office, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal
          (e) . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal this Article SEVENTH.
Amendment, repeal, etc
Eighth
:-
PROVISIONS RELATING TO STOCKHOLDER ACTION
          Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be affected by any consent in writing by such holders. Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or
upon liquidation, special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal this Article EIGHTH.
Ninth
:-
PROVISIONS RELATING TO BY-LAWS
          The Board of Directors shall have power to make, alter, amend and repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation (except so far as the By-Laws of the Corporation adopted by the stockholders shall otherwise provide). Any By-Laws made by the Directors under the powers conferred hereby may be altered, amended or repealed by the Directors or by the stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing and anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, Article I, Section 7 and Article II, Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 of the By-Laws shall not be altered, amended or repealed and no provision inconsistent therewith shall be adopted by the stockholders without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend, adopt any provision inconsistent with or repeal this Article NINTH.
Tenth
:-
PROVISIONS RELATING TO CERTAIN BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
Section 1. Vote Required for Certain Business Combinations.
          A. . In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 2 of this Article TENTH:
Vote for Certain Business Combinations
          (i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined) with (a) any Interested Stockholder (as hereinafter defined) or (b) any other corporation (whether or not itself an Interested Stockholder) which is, or after such merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate (as hereinafter defined) of an Interested Stockholder; or
          (ii) any sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or other disposition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) to or with any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder of any assets of the Corporation or any Subsidiary having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $50,000,000 or more; or
          (iii) the issuance or transfer by the Corporation or any Subsidiary (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of any securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder in exchange for cash, securities or other property (or a combination thereof) having an aggregate Fair Market Value of $50,000,000 or more; or
          (iv) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder; or
          (v) any reclassification of securities (including any reverse stock split), or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any of its Subsidiaries or any other
transaction (whether or not with or into or otherwise involving an Interested Stockholder) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing the proportionate share of the outstanding shares of any class of equity or convertible securities of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is directly or indirectly owned by any Interested Stockholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Stockholder;
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), voting together as a single class (it being understood that for purposes of this Article TENTH, each share of the Voting Stock shall have the number of votes granted to it as determined pursuant to Article FOURTH of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation). Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
          B. . The term "Business Combination" as used in this Article TENTH shall mean any transaction which is referred to in any one or more clauses (i) through (v) of paragraph A of this Section 1.
Definition of "Business Combination"
Section 2. When Vote is Not Required.
          The provisions of Section 1 of this Article TENTH shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law and any other provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, if all of the conditions specified in either of the following paragraphs A and B are met:
               A. The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined).
Approval by Disinterested Directors.
               B. All of the following conditions shall have been met:
Price and Procedural Requirements.
          (i) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of Common Stock in such Business Combination shall be at least equal to the higher of the following, appropriately adjusted for any stock dividend, split-up or combination of shares:
          (a) (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commissions, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of Common Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the first public announcement of the proposal of the Business Combination (the "Announcement Date") or (2) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher; and
          (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the Announcement Date or on the date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder (such latter date is referred to in this Article TENTH as the "Determination Date"), whichever is higher.
          (ii) The aggregate amount of the cash and the Fair Market Value as of the date of the consummation of the Business Combination of consideration other than cash to be received per share by holders of shares of any other class of outstanding Voting Stock shall be at least equal to the highest of the following, appropriately adjusted for any stock dividend, split-up or combination of shares (it being intended that the requirements of this paragraph (b)(ii) shall be required to be met with respect to every class of outstanding Voting Stock, whether or not the Interested Stockholder has previously acquired any shares of a particular class of Voting Stock):
          (a) (if applicable) the highest per share price (including any brokerage commission, transfer taxes and soliciting dealers' fees) paid by the Interested Stockholder for any shares of such class of Voting
Stock acquired by it (1) within the two-year period immediately prior to the Announcement Date of (2) in the transaction in which it became an Interested Stockholder, whichever is higher;
          (b) (if applicable) the highest preferential amount per share to which the holders of shares of such class of Voting Stock are entitled in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; and
          (c) the Fair Market Value per share of such class of Voting Stock on the Announcement Date or on the Determination Date, whichever is higher.
          (iii) The consideration to be received by holders of a particular class of outstanding Voting Stock (including Common Stock) shall be in cash or in the same form as the Interested Stockholder has previously paid for shares of such class of Voting Stock. If the Interested Stockholder has paid for shares of any class of Voting Stock with varying forms of consideration, the form of consideration for such class of Voting Stock shall be either cash or the form used to acquire the largest number of shares of such class of Voting Stock previously acquired by it.
          (iv) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder and prior to the consummation of such Business Combination: (a) except as approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors, there shall have been no failure to declare and pay at the regular date therefor any full quarterly dividends (whether or not cumulative) on the outstanding Preferred or Preference Stock; (b) there shall have been (1) no reduction in the annual rate of dividends paid on the Common Stock (except as necessary to reflect any subdivision of the Common Stock), except as approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors, and (2) an increase in such annual rate of dividends as necessary to reflect any reclassification (including any reverse stock split) recapitalization, reorganization or any similar transaction which has the effect of reducing the number of outstanding shares of the Common Stock, unless the failure so to increase such annual rate is approved by a majority of the Disinterested Directors; and (c) such Interested Stockholder shall have not become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of Voting Stock except as part of the transaction which results in such Interested Stockholder becoming an Interested Stockholder.
          (v) After such Interested Stockholder has become an Interested Stockholder, such Interested Stockholder shall not have received the benefit, directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder), of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance or any tax credits or other tax advantages provided by the Corporation, whether in anticipation of or in connection with such Business Combination or otherwise.
          (vi) A proxy or information statement describing the proposed Business Combination and complying with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder (or any subsequent provisions replacing such Act, rules or regulations) shall be mailed to public stockholders of the Corporation at least 30 days prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (whether or not such proxy or information statement is required to be mailed pursuant to such Act or subsequent provisions).
Section 3. Certain Definitions
          For the purposes of this Article TENTH:
          A. A "person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation or other entity.
          B. "Interested Stockholder" shall mean any person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
               (i) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 20% of the voting power of the outstanding Voting Stock; or
               (ii) is an Affiliate of the Corporation and at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock; or
               (iii) is an assignee of or has otherwise succeeded to any shares of Voting Stock which were at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question beneficially owned by any Interested Stockholder, if such assignment or succession shall have occurred in the course of a transaction or series of transactions not involving a public offering within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933.
          C. A person shall be a "beneficial owner" of any Voting Stock:
               (i) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates (as hereinafter defined) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly; or
               (ii) which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has (a) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise, or (b) the right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding; or
               (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other person with which such person or any of its Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of any shares of Voting Stock.
          D. For the purposes of determining whether a person is an Interested Stockholder pursuant to paragraph B of this Section 3, the number of shares of Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed owned through application of paragraph C of this Section 3 but shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock which may be issuable to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
          E. "Affiliate" or "Associate" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on May 3, 1984.
          F. "Subsidiary" means any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation; provided, however, that for the purposes of the definition of Interested Stockholder set forth in paragraph B of this Section 3, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each class of equity security is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation.
          G. "Disinterested Director" means any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") who is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and was a member of the Board prior to the time that the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder, and any successor of a Disinterested Director who is unaffiliated with the Interested Stockholder and is recommended to succeed a Disinterested Director by a majority of Disinterested Directors then on the Board.
          H. "Fair Market Value" means: (i) in the case of stock, the highest closing sale price during the 30-day period immediately preceding the date in question of a share of such stock on the Composite Tape for New York Stock Exchange Listed Stocks, or, if such stock is not quoted on the Composite Tape, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if such Stock is not listed on such Exchange, on the principal United States securities exchange registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on which such stock is listed, or, if such stock is not listed on any such exchange, the highest closing bid quotation with respect to a share of such stock during the 30-day period preceding the date in question on the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotations System or any system then in use, or if no
such quotations are available, the fair market value on the date in question of a share of such stock as determined by the Board in good faith; and (ii) in the case of property other than cash or stock, the fair market value of such property on the date in question as determined by the Board in good faith.
          I. In the event of any Business Combination in which the Corporation survives, the phrase "other consideration to be received" as used in paragraphs B (i) and (ii) of Section 2 of this Article TENTH shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class of outstanding Voting Stock retained by the holders of such shares.
Section 4. Powers of the Board of Directors.
          A majority of the directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article TENTH, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, (A) whether a person is an Interested Stockholder, (B) the number of shares of Voting Stock beneficially owned by any person, (C) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (D) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $50,000,000 or more.
Section 5. No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations of Interested Stockholders.
          Nothing contained in this Article TENTH shall be construed to relieve any Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
Section 6. Amendment, Repeal, etc.
          Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation), the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with this Article TENTH.
Eleventh
:-
Provisions Relating To Director's Liability and Indemnification of Officers and Directors
Section 1. Elimination of Certain Liability of Directors
          A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
Section 2. Indemnification and Insurance
          (a) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a director or officer, of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit
Right to Indemnification.
plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the Delaware General Corporation Law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, except as provided in paragraph (b) hereof, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The right to indemnification conferred in this Section shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, if the Delaware General Corporation Law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise. The Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide indemnification to employees and agents of the Corporation with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers.
          (b) If a claim under paragraph (a) of this section is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Delaware General Corporation Law, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or of stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Right of Claimant to Bring Suit.
          (c) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Section shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights.
          (d) The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance at its expense to protect itself and on behalf of any person who is or was or has agreed to become a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her or on his or her behalf in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify
Insurance.
him or her against such liability under the provisions of this Article, provided that such insurance is available on acceptable terms, which determination shall be made by the Board of Directors.
          (e) Nothing set forth in this Article Eleventh Section 2 shall diminish the right of the Board of Directors to adopt By-laws concerning the indemnification of officers, directors, employees, and agents of the Corporation, as authorized by law and not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article.
Additional Provisions.
Section 3. Amendment and Savings Clauses
          (a) No amendment to or repeal of this Article Eleventh shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability or the right to indemnification of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director, officer, employee or agent occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
Amendment and Repeal.
          (b) If this Article or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify each director, officer, employee and agent of the Corporation as to costs, charges and expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement with respect to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including an action by or in the right of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this article that shall not have been invalidated and to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
Savings Clause.
          This Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, said Pitney Bowes Inc., has caused this certificate to be signed by Amy Corn, its Vice President, Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, this 10 day of May, 2011.
th

Exhibit 3(d)
Section 1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on such date, and at such place and time, as the Chairman of the Board or the Board of Directors shall designate.
Annual Meeting
Section 2. . Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the Board of Directors, as provided in Article I, Section 7.
Special Meeting
Section 3. . Subject to the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and except as otherwise required by law, written notice of an annual or special meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting. In the case of a special meeting of stockholders, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be set forth in the notice. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Notice of Meetings
Section 4. The Secretary or the Treasurer shall prepare and make, or cause the Transfer Agent to prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list, as of the record date, of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of, and the number of shares registered in the name of, each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the list of stockholders, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
List of Stockholders.
Section 5. . (a) . The business to be conducted at any stockholder's meeting of the Corporation and nominations for the election of directors of the Corporation's Board of Directors at any stockholder's meeting of the Corporation shall be limited to such business and nominations as shall comply with the procedures set forth in this Article I and in Article II of these By-laws.
Advance Notice Procedures
General
(b) . At a special meeting of stockholders only such business shall be conducted as shall have been set forth in the notice of special meeting. At an annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) otherwise (a) properly requested to be brought before the meeting in accordance with this By-law by a stockholder of record entitled to vote in the election of directors generally, and (b) constitute a proper subject for stockholder action to be brought before such meeting.
Notification of Stockholder Business
For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by the stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, not later than 90 days in advance of such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder intending to propose such business and the name and address of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (c) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, (d) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present such business, (e) any material interest of the stockholder and the beneficial owner in such business, and (f) a representation whether the stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to (i) deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal and (ii) otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal. Nominations for elections of directors at either an annual or special meeting of stockholders shall be made, if at all, in accordance with Section 6 of Article II of these By-laws.
Notwithstanding anything in the By-laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 5. The chairman of the annual meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that (i) the business proposed to be brought before the meeting was not a proper subject therefor and/or (ii) such business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5 and/or (iii) the stockholder or beneficial owner has solicited or is part of a group which has solicited proxies in support of such proposal without having made the representation required by clause (f) of this Section 5, and, if the chairman should so determine, he may so declare to the meeting and any such proposed business shall not be transacted.
(c) . For purposes of this Section 5, and of Section 6 of Article II of these By-laws, reference to a requirement to deliver notice of information to the Corporation a set number of days in advance of an annual meeting shall mean that such notice must be delivered such number of days in advance of the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days or delayed by more than 60 days from the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered to the Corporation not later than the close of business on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. For purposes of these By-laws, notice shall be deemed to be first given to stockholders when disclosure of such date is first made in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act").
Notice
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 5 and in Article II, Section 6 of these By-laws. Nothing in this Section 5 shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 6. . Subject to the provisions of Article I, Section 7 hereof, any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Adjournments
Section 7. . At any meeting of stockholders the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. At each meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, each director shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast; provided that (i) if, as of the record date for such meeting, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the nominees receiving the greatest number of votes of the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, present in person or by proxy, shall be the directors for the term as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (even if less than a majority), and (ii) no more than the authorized number of directors to be elected as fixed by the Board of Directors shall be elected. For purposes of the Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of votes cast "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" the director. If a director is not elected, the director shall tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Governance Committee of the Board (the "Governance Committee") will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board
Quorum and Voting
will act on the Governance Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. If, for any cause, the Board of Directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected thereafter at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these By-laws. Each other question properly presented to any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast on the question entitled to vote thereon, except as otherwise required by law or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Elections of directors shall be by ballot but the vote upon any other question need be by ballot only if so ordered by the person presiding at the meeting, or by a vote of a majority of the stockholders, present in person or by proxy, entitled to vote on the question. In the event of lack of a quorum, the chairman of the meeting or majority in interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be obtained.
Treasury shares as of the record date shall not be shares entitled to vote or to be counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders. Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called only by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. 
Section 8. . The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at such meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may (i) appoint a person to preside over meetings of stockholders (in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the President), and (ii) adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman shall permit; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
Conduct of Meetings
Section 9. . The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
Inspectors of Election
The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
Section 1. . The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.
Powers of Board
Section 2. . Except as otherwise fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, the number of the Directors of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors but shall not be less than three. Commencing with the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, the Directors, other than those who may be elected by the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, shall be elected annually for terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting; provided, however, that Directors elected at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders, Directors elected at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, and Directors elected at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders.
Number, Election and Terms
Section 3. . Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of Directors shall be given in the manner provided in Article II, Section 6 of these By-laws.
Stockholder Nomination of Director Candidates
Section 4. . Except as otherwise provided for or fixed by or pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any Director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until such Director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. No decrease in the number of Directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies
Section 5. . Subject to the rights of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect Directors under specified circumstances, any Director may be removed from office, with or without cause and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors, voting together as a single class.
Removal
Section 6. . Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 6 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting or, in accordance with the provisions of Article I, Section 5 of these By-laws, a special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors. Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors by any stockholder of record entitled to vote in the election of directors generally. However, any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of directors generally may nominate one or more persons for election as directors at a meeting only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been delivered, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation not later than (i) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, 90 days in advance of such meeting, and (ii) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination (and of the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made) and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description
Notification of Nominations
of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder (and beneficial owner, if any) and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board of Directors; (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation if so elected; and (f) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends to (a) deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to elect the nominee(s) and (b) otherwise solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such nomination. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge or permit the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure or if the stockholder or beneficial owner has solicited or is part of a group which has solicited proxies in support of such nomination without having made the representations required by clause (f) of this Section 6.
Section 7. . At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; but if at any meeting of the Board there is less than a quorum present, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time. Except in cases in which the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws otherwise provide, the vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Quorum; Vote Required for Action
Section 8. . As soon as practicable after each annual election of directors, the Board of Directors shall meet for the purpose of organization and the transaction of other business. Notice of such meeting need not be given. In the alternative, such first meeting may be held at any other time which shall be specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided, for special meetings of the Board of Directors.
First Meeting
Section 9. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held, without notice, at such times and places as may be fixed by the Board.
Regular Meetings
Section 10. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman or by any two of the directors. Notice of each special meeting of the Board shall be given to each director either by mail not later than noon, New York time, on the third day prior to the meeting, or by electronic transmission, written message or orally to the director not later than noon, New York time, on the day prior to the meeting. Notices are deemed to have been given: by mail, when deposited in the United States mail; by electronic transmission, at the time of transmission; and by messenger, at the time of delivery. Notices by mail, electronic transmission or messenger shall be sent to each director at the address designated by him for that purpose, or, if none has been designated, at his last known residence or business address.
Special Meetings
A notice of meeting of the Board of Directors need not specify the purpose of any meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 11. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at meetings of the Board; in the Chairman's absence, a member of the Board selected by the members present shall preside at meetings of the Board. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary, but in his absence the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary.
Organization
Section 12. . Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors or to the Chairman or to the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if no time is specified, upon receipt thereof. Unless otherwise specified, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any vacancy created by a resignation may be filled in the same manner as prescribed under Article II, Section 4, hereof.
Resignations
Section 13. . The Board of Directors shall have authority to fix the compensation and provide for the reimbursement of expenses of directors in respect of their service in any capacity.
Compensation of Directors
Section 14. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.
Committees
Section 15. . Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board of Directors may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board of Directors conducts its business pursuant to these By-laws.
Committee Rules
Section 1. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. There may be a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers as the Board of Directors may determine. Subject to the provisions of these By-laws, officers shall hold their offices until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
. Election; Term of Office
Section 2. . The officers of the Corporation shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the Corporation as may be prescribed by the By-laws,
Powers and Duties
or by the Board of Directors, and to the extent not so prescribed pursuant to the By-laws, they shall have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the Corporation, subject to the control of the Board, as generally pertain to their respective offices.
Section 3. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at the meetings of the Board and of stockholders and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect.
Chairman of the Board
Section 4. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have general and active supervision and management of the business of the Corporation. In the absence of the Chairman, he shall preside at meetings of stockholders.
Chief Executive Officer
Section 5. . The President shall be the chief operating officer of the Corporation. In the absence of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, he shall preside at meetings of stockholders.
President
Section 6. . Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of Directors. The Board of Directors may fill any vacancies resulting from death, resignation, or removal of an officer in the same manner as provided for the election or appointment of such person.
Resignation, Removal and Vacancies
Section 1. . The corporate seal shall be in such form as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed, affixed or otherwise used. The Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer may affix the seal to any instrument signed by a duly authorized officer, or when specifically authorized by the Board of Directors, and may attest the same. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, the seal may also be attested by any officer of the Corporation except the officer signing the instrument on behalf of the Corporation.
Corporate Seal
Section 2. . Whenever any notice is required to be given under the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws or otherwise by law, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to the notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors, or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice.
Waiver of Notice
Section 3. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors or such other person as the Board of Directors may designate shall be authorized to attend, vote
Voting of Stocks Owned by the Corporation
and grant proxies to be used at any meeting of stockholders of any corporation in which the Corporation may hold stock.
Section 4. . Subject to the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, these By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed at any regular meeting of the stockholders (or at any special meeting thereof duly called for that purpose) by a majority of the votes cast on the question entitled to vote thereon; provided that in the notice of such special meeting notice of such purpose shall be given. Subject to the laws of the State of Delaware, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and these By-laws, the Board of Directors may, by majority vote of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, amend these By-laws or enact such other By-laws as in their judgment may be advisable for the regulation of the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation.
By-law Amendment
Section 5. . The masculine gender, where appearing in these By-laws, shall be deemed to include the feminine gender.
Construction


