FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20111114165148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) Appointment of Director
We note the correction that on November 4, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Governance Committee of the Board, with effect as of February 1, 2012, expanded the number of directors of the Board to 12 and elected Roger Fradin as a new director in accordance with the Company's Amended and Restated By-laws. Mr. Fradin will serve as a director from February 1, 2012, until the next annual meeting of the Company's stockholders or earlier death, resignation or removal.
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Roger Fradin to the Board of the Company is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K/A and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
        99.1 Pitney Bowes Press Release dated November 11, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Matthew Broder VP, External Communications Pitney Bowes Inc. 203 351 6347
Company Contact:
www.pb.com
          STAMFORD, Conn., November 11, 2011  Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE:PBI) announced today that Roger Fradin has been elected a director of the corporation, effective February 1, 2012.
          Fradin is president and CEO of Honeywell Automation and Control Solutions, a division of Honeywell with global revenues of $15 billion annually. The division, Honeywell's largest, comprises seven strategic business units operating in 110 countries with 75,000 employees. It is focused on manufacturing and applying sensing and control technologies that help create safer and more comfortable, secure, and productive environments. Fradin joined Honeywell in 2000 when Honeywell acquired Pittway Corporation. At Pittway, Fradin helped lead the entrepreneurial team that built the company from an early stage in 1976 to nearly $2 billion in annual revenues by 2000.
          "We are very pleased to have Roger Fradin join Pitney Bowes as a director," said Chairman, President and CEO Murray Martin. "He brings tremendous strength to our board as a global executive with deep experience in both strategy formulation and disciplined execution. His insights will strongly support our leadership position in Customer Communications Management."
          Fradin's term expires at the 2012 annual meeting, when he will stand for re-election.
About Pitney Bowes:
Delivering more than 90 years of innovation, Pitney Bowes provides software, hardware and services that integrate physical and digital communications channels. Long known for making its customers more productive, Pitney Bowes is increasingly helping other companies grow their business through advanced customer communications management. Pitney Bowes is a $5.4 billion company and employs more than 30,000 worldwide. Pitney Bowes: Every connection is a new opportunity. .
www.pb.com


