FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20121126122350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS
On September 22, 2011, Pitney Bowes Inc. (the "Company") filed a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-176957) (the "Registration Statement") with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the registration of the debt securities, preferred stock, preference stock, common stock, purchase contracts, depositary shares, warrants and units of the Company. The Registration Statement and the prospectus contained within are collectively referred to as the "Prospectus".
On November 20, 2012, the Company filed a final prospectus supplement, dated November 19, 2012, to the Prospectus, relating to the issuance of its 5.25% Notes due 2022 (the "Notes") in an aggregate principal amount of $100,000,000 or, if the underwriters exercise their option to purchase additional Notes to cover over-allotments, if any, up to $115,000,000.
On November 19, 2012, the Company agreed to sell the Notes pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of November 19, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), and the Pricing Agreement, dated as of November 19, 2012 (the "Pricing Agreement"), by and among the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as the representatives for the several underwriters. Copies of the Underwriting Agreement and the Pricing Agreement are filed as Exhibit 1.1. The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement and the Pricing Agreement.
The underwriters and their respective affiliates are full service financial institutions engaged in various activities, which may include securities trading, commercial and investment banking, financial advisory, investment management, investment research, principal investment, hedging, financing and brokerage activities. The underwriters and their affiliates have provided, and in the future may continue to provide, investment banking, financial advisory and other financial services to the Company in the ordinary course of business for which they have received and will receive customary compensation. Affiliates of certain of the underwriters are lenders to the Company under the Company's existing credit facility.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits.
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 1.1
November 19, 2012
To the Representatives of the           several Underwriters named in the           respective Pricing Agreements           hereinafter described
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Pitney Bowes Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), from time to time may enter into one or more pricing agreements (each a "") in the form of Annex I, with such additions and deletions as the parties thereto may determine and, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein and therein, to issue and sell to the firms named in Schedule I to the applicable Pricing Agreement (such firms constituting the "" with respect to such Pricing Agreement and the securities specified therein) certain of its debt securities or warrants to purchase debt securities (the "") specified in Schedule II to such Pricing Agreement (with respect to such Pricing Agreement, the ""). If specified in such Pricing Agreement, the Company may grant to the Underwriters the right to purchase at their election an additional principal amount of Securities, specified in such Pricing Agreement as provided in Section 2 (the ""). The Firm Securities and the Optional Securities, if any, which the Underwriters elect to purchase pursuant to Section 2 are collectively called the "." The Pricing Agreement may designate a lead underwriter or underwriters (collectively, the "") for the particular issue of Designated Securities. The term "Representatives" also refers to a single firm acting as sole representative of the Underwriters and to an Underwriter or Underwriters who act without any firm being designated as its or their representatives.
Company
Pricing Agreement
Underwriters
Securities
Firm Securities
Optional Securities
Designated Securities
Representatives
          The standard provisions set forth herein to the extent applicable to securities of the type represented by the Designated Securities will be incorporated by reference in any such Pricing Agreement relating to a particular issue of Securities. The terms and rights of any particular issuance of Designated Securities shall be as specified in the Pricing Agreement relating thereto and in or pursuant to the indenture (the "") identified in such Pricing Agreement.
Indenture
          This Underwriting Agreement shall not be construed as an obligation of the Company to sell any of the Securities or as an obligation of any of the Underwriters to purchase any of the Securities. The obligation of the Company to issue and sell any of the Designated Securities and
the obligation of the Underwriters to purchase any of the Designated Securities shall be evidenced by the Pricing Agreement with respect to the Designated Securities specified therein. Each Pricing Agreement shall specify the aggregate principal amount of the Firm Securities, the maximum aggregate principal amount of the Optional Securities, if any, any initial public offering price of such Designated Securities or the manner of determining such price, the purchase price to the Underwriters of such Designated Securities, the names of the Underwriters of such Designated Securities, the names of the Representative(s) of such Underwriters, the principal amount of such Designated Securities to be purchased by each Underwriter and the commission, if any, payable to the Underwriters with respect thereto and shall set forth the date, time and manner of delivery of such Firm Securities and Optional Securities, if any, and payment therefor. The Pricing Agreement also shall specify the summary terms of such Designated Securities. The Pricing Agreement, including these standard provisions incorporated therein by reference, is referred to as "". A Pricing Agreement shall be in the form of an executed writing, which may be in counterparts, and may be evidenced by an exchange of email communications or any other rapid transmission device designed to produce a written record of communications transmitted. If there is more than one Underwriter for the Designated Securities, the obligations of those Underwriters under this Agreement shall be several and not joint.
this Agreement
          The terms and rights of any particular issuance of Designated Securities shall be as specified in the Pricing Agreement relating thereto and: (i) if the Designated Securities are either senior or subordinated debt securities (""), in or pursuant to the senior or subordinated indenture (the "") identified in the Pricing Agreement; (ii) if the Designated Securities are warrants (""), in or pursuant to a warrant agreement (the "") identified in the Pricing Agreement; and (iii) if the Designated Securities are debt securities subject to the Warrants (""), in or pursuant to the indenture identified in the Pricing Agreement.
Debt Securities
Indenture
Warrants
Warrant Agreement
Warrant Debt Securities
          1. . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter named in Schedule I to the applicable Pricing Agreement, as of the date thereof and as of the Time of Delivery (as defined in Section 3) as follows:
Representations and Warranties
          3. . Firm Securities and Optional Securities to be purchased by each Underwriter pursuant to the Pricing Agreement relating thereto, in the form specified in such Pricing Agreement and in such authorized denominations and registered in such names as the Representatives may request upon at least 48 hours' prior notice to the Company, shall be delivered by or on behalf of the Company to the Representatives for the account of such Underwriter, against payment by such Underwriter or on its behalf of the purchase price therefor
Payment
by wire transfer of Federal (same-day) funds to the account specified by the Company to the Representatives at least 48 hours in advance as specified in such Pricing Agreement:
Each such time and date for delivery is called a "".
Time of Delivery
          4. . The Company agrees with each of the Underwriters of any Designated Securities that:
Covenants
Except as provided in this Section 5, and Sections 7 and 10, the Underwriters will pay all of their own costs and expenses, including the fees of their counsel, transfer taxes on resale of any of the Designated Securities by them and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they may make.
6. The obligations of the Underwriters of any Designated Securities under the Pricing Agreement relating to such Designated Securities shall be subject, in the discretion of the Representatives, to the condition that all representations and warranties and other statements of the Company in or incorporated by reference in the Pricing Agreement relating to such Designated Securities are, at and as of each Time of Delivery for such Designated Securities, true and correct, the condition that the Company shall have performed all of its obligations hereunder theretofore to be performed, and the following additional conditions:
          
.
Conditions of the Underwriters' Obligations
          9. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company and the several Underwriters, as set forth in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of them, respectively, pursuant to this Agreement, shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation or any statement as to the results thereof made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or any controlling person of any Underwriter, or the Company, or any officer or director or controlling person of the Company, and shall survive delivery of and payment for the Designated Securities.
Survival.
          10.. If any Pricing Agreement or Option shall be terminated pursuant to Section 8, the Company shall not then be under any liability to any Underwriter with respect to the Firm Securities or Optional Securities covered by such Pricing Agreement except as provided in Sections 5 and 7; but, if for any other reason Designated Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein, other than the occurrence of an event described in Section 6(h)(i), (iii), (iv) or (v), the Company will reimburse the Underwriters through the Representatives for all out-of-pocket expenses approved in writing by the Representatives, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in making
Termination
preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of such Designated Securities, but the Company shall then be under no further liability to any Underwriter with respect to such Designated Securities except as provided in Sections 5 and 7.
          11.. In all dealings hereunder, the Representatives of the Underwriters of Designated Securities shall act on behalf of each of such Underwriters, and the parties hereto shall be entitled to act and rely upon any statement, request, notice or agreement on behalf of any Underwriter made or given by such Representatives jointly or by such of the Representatives, if any, as may be designated for such purpose in the Pricing Agreement.
Representatives
          12. All statements, requests, notices and agreements hereunder shall be in writing, and if to the Underwriters shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission to the address of the Representatives as set forth in the Pricing Agreement; and if to the Company shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission to the address of the Company set forth in the Registration Statement: Attention: Secretary; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 7(c) shall be delivered or sent by mail, telex or facsimile transmission to such Underwriter at its address set forth in its Underwriters' Questionnaire, or telex constituting such Questionnaire, which address will be supplied to the Company by the Representatives upon request. Any such statements, requests, notices or agreements shall take effect upon receipt thereof.
Notices.
                    In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
          13. This Agreement (including each Pricing Agreement) shall be binding upon, and inure solely to the benefit of, the Underwriters, the Company and, to the extent provided in Sections 7 and 9, the officers and directors of the Company and each person who controls the Company or any Underwriter, and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. No other person shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement (including any such Pricing Agreement). No purchaser of any of the Designated Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed a successor or assign merely by reason of such purchase.
Parties.
          14. Time shall be of the essence of each Pricing Agreement. As used herein, the term "business day" shall mean any day when the Commission's office in Washington, DC is open for business.
Time.
          15.
Governing Law.
This Agreement (including each Pricing Agreement) shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
          16. This Agreement (including each Pricing Agreement) may be executed by any one or more of the parties hereto and thereto in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such respective counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Pitney Bowes Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein and in the Underwriting Agreement, Standard Provisions, dated November 19, 2012 (the ""), to issue and sell to the Underwriters named in Schedule I (the "") the Securities specified in Schedule II (the ""), consisting of Firm Securities and any Optional Securities the Underwriters may elect to purchase. Each of the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. Each of the representations and warranties set forth therein shall be deemed to have been made at and as of the date of this Pricing Agreement, except that each representation and warranty which refers to the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package in Section 2 of the Underwriting Agreement shall be deemed to be a representation or warranty as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement in relation to the Prospectus (as therein defined) or the General Disclosure Package, and also a representation and warranty as of the date of this Pricing Agreement in relation to the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Package, as amended or supplemented prior to the execution of this Pricing Agreement, relating to the Designated Securities which are the subject of this Pricing Agreement. Each reference to the Representatives herein and in the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement so incorporated by reference shall be deemed to refer to you. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Underwriting Agreement are used herein as therein defined. The Representatives designated to act on behalf of the Representatives and on behalf of each of the Underwriters of the Designated Securities pursuant to Section 11 of the Underwriting Agreement and the address of the Representatives referred to in Section 12 of the Underwriting Agreement are set forth in Schedule II.
Company
Underwriting Agreement
Underwriters
Designated Securities
          An amendment to the Registration Statement, or a supplement to the Prospectus, as the case may be, relating to the Designated Securities, in the form heretofore delivered to you is now proposed to be filed with the Commission.
          Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Underwriting Agreement incorporated herein by reference: (i) the Company agrees to issue and sell to each of the Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the time and place and at the purchase price to the Underwriters set forth in Schedule II, the principal amount of Firm Securities set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in Schedule I; and (ii) in the event and to the extent that the Underwriters shall exercise the election to purchase Optional Securities, as provided below, the Company agrees to issue and sell to each of the Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company at the purchase price to the Underwriters set forth in Schedule II that portion of the principal amount of Optional Securities as to which such election shall have been exercised.
          The Company hereby grants to each of the Underwriters the right to purchase at their election up to the principal amount of Optional Securities set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter in Schedule I on the terms referred to in the paragraph above. Any such election to purchase Optional Securities may be exercised by written notice from the Representatives to the Company given within a period of 30 calendar days after the date of this Pricing Agreement, setting forth the principal amount of Optional Securities to be purchased and the date on which such Optional Securities are to be delivered, as determined by the Representatives, but in no event earlier than the First Time of Delivery or, unless the Representatives and the Company otherwise agree in writing, no earlier than two or later than ten business days after the date of such notice.
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us a counterpart hereof, and upon acceptance hereof by you, on behalf of each of the Underwriters, this letter and such acceptance hereof, including the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement incorporated herein by reference, shall constitute a binding agreement between each of the Underwriters and the Company. It is understood that your acceptance of this letter on behalf of each of the Underwriters is or will be pursuant to the authority set forth in a form of Agreement among Underwriters, the form of which shall be submitted to the Company for examination upon request, but without warranty on the part of the Representatives as to the authority of the signers thereof.
1. Final Term Sheet, dated November 19, 2012
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
Note:
The Issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the preliminary prospectus supplement and other documents the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the Issuer, any Underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll free at 1-800-294-1322, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC toll free at 1- 866-718-1649, or Investor Relations of the Issuer collect at (203) 351-6349.


