FILE:PBI/PBI-8K-20121204171425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934
December 4 (December 3, 2012)
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
Pitney Bowes Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
World Headquarters 1 Elmcroft Road
Stamford, Connecticut 06926-0700
(Address of principal executive offices)
(203) 356-5000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 -  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 -  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 -  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 -  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Effective December 3, 2012, the Board of Directors elected Marc B. Lautenbach to the office of President and Chief Executive Officer of Pitney Bowes Inc. (the Company). He was also elected to the Board of Directors of the Company for a term expiring at the May, 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Lautenbach was also appointed as a member of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.
Effective December 3, 2012, the Board of Directors separated the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and appointed Michael I. Roth Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Effective December 3, 2012, Murray D. Martin resigned from his position as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors, and was elected Executive Vice President to work with Mr. Lautenbach on an effective transition. Mr. Martins annual base salary shall remain the same until his last day of employment with the Company and he will be eligible for a prorated bonus for the period he serves as Executive Vice President in 2013, payable in 2014.
With these changes, the Companys Board of Directors includes 13 members, 12 of whom are independent.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Lautenbach and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Lautenbach was selected as President, Chief Executive Officer and director. He is not related to any other director or executive officer of the Company. Mr. Lautenbach receives no separate compensation for his role as director. He has no direct or indirect material interest in any transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Lautenbach, age 51, joins the Company after 27 years at International Business Machines Corporation (IBM). Most recently, from 2010 to 2012, Mr. Lautenbach served as Managing Partner of IBM North America Global Business Services, responsible for the consulting and systems integration business, overseeing professionals in global delivery centers. Prior to that, from 2005 to 2010, Mr. Lautenbach was General Manager, IBM North America, leading the IBM sales and distribution operations in the United States, Canada and Latin America, and from 2000 to 2005 he was General Manager, IBM Global Small and Medium Business, responsible for all of IBM's efforts in support of small and medium businesses worldwide, including strategy, offering and channel development, and marketing and sales. Mr. Lautenbach joined IBM in 1985 and held numerous other sales management positions including Vice President IBM Asia-Pacific Small and Medium Business. In addition, Mr. Lautenbach was appointed to IBMs Worldwide Management Committee in 2001, and then to the IBM Performance Team and the Integration and Values Team in 2006. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa,
magna cum laude from Denison University and earned an MBA from The Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University.
On November 27, 2012, the Company agreed to the terms of an employment offer letter with Mr. Lautenbach. The offer letter has no specified term and Mr. Lautenbachs employment with the Company is on an employment-at-will basis.
The offer letter provides for the following compensation and benefits to the President and Chief Executive Officer:
The offer also includes the following revision to the change of control benefit from the Senior Executive Severance Policy:
If during his first 18 months of employment, either (1) Mr. Lautenbachs employment is terminated by the Company without Cause, or (2) a Change of Control occurs during that 18 month period and he resigns for a Good Reason within the subsequent two years, then he will receive (a) 1.5 times his then current base salary and 1.5 times his then current target bonus, payable in a lump sum, and (b) accelerated vesting of all equity awards as provided under the applicable plan or policy of the Company. If following Mr. Lautenbachs first 18 months of employment, either (1) his employment is terminated by the Company without Cause, or (2) a Change of Control occurs after that initial 18 month period and he resign for a Good Reason within the subsequent two years, then he will receive (a) 2 times his then current base salary and 2 times his then current target bonus, payable in a lump sum, and (b) accelerated vesting of all equity awards as provided under the applicable plan or policy of the Company. The terms Cause, Good Reason and Change of Control have the same meanings as set forth in the Companys Senior Executive Severance Policy as in effect on November 27, 2012.
These severance benefits are in lieu of any severance benefits which Mr. Lautenbach may be otherwise entitled under the Companys Senior Executive Severance Policy and/or Severance Pay Plan.
Mr. Lautenbach will be otherwise subject to the Pitney Bowes Inc. Executive Stock Ownership Policy which includes a requirement to attain a target ownership level of five-times base salary over a five-year period.
 
The foregoing does not constitute a complete summary of the terms of the offer letter, and reference is made to the complete text of the offer letter which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d) Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

November 27, 2012
Mr. Marc Lautenbach
Dear Marc:
I am pleased to confirm our offer to you to join Pitney Bowes Inc. (the Company) as President and Chief Executive Officer. You will report to the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board). The terms of your compensation and benefits package are as follows:
2
 
3
The severance benefits described in this letter will be in lieu of any severance benefits which you may be otherwise entitled under the Companys Senior Executive Severance Policy and/or Severance Pay Plan.
4
comply with the requirements of such provision. If you are a specified employee within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code at the time of your separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then any payment otherwise required to be made to you under this letter or otherwise on account of your separation from service, to the extent such payment (after taking in to account all exclusions applicable to such payment from coverage by Section 409A of the Code) is properly treated as deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, shall not be made until the first business day after (i) the expiration of six months from the date of your separation from service, or (ii) if earlier, the date of your death (the Delayed Payment Date). On the Delayed Payment Date, there shall be paid to you (or, if applicable, your estate), in a single cash lump sum, an amount equal to aggregate amount of the payments delayed pursuant to the preceding sentence.
In accepting this offer, you agree that you have relied only on the terms set forth in this letter and the attached Terms and Conditions, and not on any representation or statement made by a Company employee, agent or representative. The Company periodically conducts market reviews of its compensation structure and reserves the right to amend, modify or terminate its compensation programs without prior notice.
This offer is contingent upon approval of the Board. This offer is also contingent upon the satisfaction of the provisions outlined in the attached Terms and Conditions. In accepting this offer, you agree that you have relied only on the terms set forth in this offer, including the attached Terms and Conditions.
Please verbally confirm your acceptance of this offer to me, sign this document, and fax/scan back to me a signed copy of this offer letter no later than 5:00 pm EDT on November 27, 2012. Following that, additional materials will be sent to you electronically.
Marc, we are confident that the position will be challenging and rewarding, that you will make significant contributions, and that you will achieve personal success at Pitney Bowes.
Sincerely,
/s/ Eduardo Menasc
Eduardo Menasc Chairman, Executive Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors Pitney Bowes Inc.
Attachments: Terms and Conditions
Acceptance Confirmation:
/s/ Marc Lautenbach
        
11  27  12
Marc Lautenbach                    Date
5
Terms and Conditions
One additional important matter: Pitney Bowes does not wish to receive any documents or any confidential information concerning any business, technical or other matters of which you might be aware as a result of your former employment or from any other party. If at any time you are in doubt about whether or not to bring with you any information or disclose any such information, you should resolve the situation by not disclosing or discussing any information which could create a present or future conflict for you or Pitney Bowes.
You have advised us that you are not under any current or former agreement that prohibits you from being employed by Pitney Bowes. You understand that in the event such an agreement exists, Pitney Bowes has the right to end your employment or contest the agreement at its sole discretion. In addition, you understand and agree your employment is at-will, which means that you or Pitney Bowes can end your employment at any time for any reason.
6

PITNEY BOWES APPOINTS MARC B. LAUTENBACH AS
PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
27-Year IBM Veteran Brings Extensive Experience and
Proven Track Record in Technology Services
Murray D. Martin to Retire as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Michael I. Roth Named Non-Executive Chairman
STAMFORD, Conn., December 3, 2012 
Pitney Bowes Inc. (NYSE: PBI) today announced that the Pitney Bowes Board of Directors has appointed Marc B. Lautenbach as President and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. Mr. Lautenbach joins Pitney Bowes with nearly 30 years of experience in the technology and business services industry, having served in senior leadership positions at IBM (NYSE: IBM).
Mr. Lautenbach succeeds Murray D. Martin, who is retiring as the companys Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and has resigned from the companys board of directors. Mr. Martin will continue to work with Mr. Lautenbach on an effective transition.
The Pitney Bowes Board also announced today that Michael I. Roth, currently Lead Independent Director, has been appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, effective immediately. Mr. Lautenbach has also been appointed to the companys Board, effective immediately. With these changes, the Pitney Bowes Board of Directors includes 13 individuals, 12 of whom are independent.
At different stages of his 27-year career at IBM, Mr. Lautenbach oversaw the small- and medium-size (SMB) customer segment. In addition, as the executive responsible for sales in the Americas, he has had substantial experience in the enterprise and federal government segments. Most recently, Mr. Lautenbach served as Managing Partner of IBM North America Global Business Services. Mr. Lautenbach has served in various senior management positions of increasing responsibility, including General Manager, IBM North America; General Manager, IBM Global Small and Medium Business; and Vice President, IBM Asia-Pacific Small and Medium Business.
The Board is pleased to welcome Marc to Pitney Bowes as the companys next President and CEO, said Mr. Roth. Marc is a successful leader and manager, with a proven track record within the technology and business services industry in the SMB and Enterprise segments, as well as in
1
transforming businesses, both within IBM and for its customers. During his tenure at IBM, Marc developed a reputation for delivering consistent results while assisting companies to reach their full potential. This experience is of critical importance to Pitney Bowes at this important time of change for our company and our industry. The Board is confident that Marc is ideally suited to lead Pitney Bowes, and as the non-Executive Chairman, I look forward to working closely with Marc and the senior management team to execute on our strategy to be a leading provider of customer communications solutions.
Mr. Roth continued, On behalf of the Board, I want to thank Murray for his dedication and many outstanding contributions in his 26 years with the company. Under his leadership, Murray has overseen numerous acquisitions, many major technological innovations and strategic initiatives to streamline the business and focus on high growth opportunities. The Board appreciates his ongoing support and we wish Murray the best in his retirement.
Mr. Martin said, I am proud to have been a part of Pitney Bowes growth and evolution since joining the company in 1987. I believe Marc has the right background and experience to lead Pitney Bowes forward, and to execute on the initiatives necessary to drive future growth and value creation for shareholders.
Mr. Lautenbach stated, It is an honor to lead Pitney Bowes, a company with a long and proud history. I view this as a time of great opportunity to build an even stronger future for the company with its valuable portfolio of innovative products and solutions, strong customer relationships and a team of deeply talented and devoted employees around the world. I look forward to working with the Board of Directors, executive team, and all Pitney Bowes employees to enhance the companys market position and accelerate our transformation for future growth and success for the benefit of all stakeholders.
The company reiterated the guidance it provided on November 1, 2012, and anticipates 2012 guidance for:
About Marc B. Lautenbach
In his role as Managing Partner of IBM North America Global Business Services, Mr. Lautenbach (51) was responsible for the consulting and systems integration business, overseeing professionals globally.
Previously, as General Manager, IBM North America, Mr. Lautenbach led the IBM sales and distribution operations in the U.S., Canada and Latin America. Prior to that, Mr. Lautenbach was General Manager, IBM Global Small and Medium Business, with responsibility for all of IBMs efforts in support of small and medium businesses worldwide, including strategy, offering and channel development, and marketing and sales. In addition, Mr. Lautenbach was appointed to IBMs
2
Worldwide Management Committee in 2001, and then to the Performance Team and the Integration and Values Team in 2006.
                               
Mr. Lautenbach graduated Phi Beta Kappa, magna cum laude from Denison University and also earned an M.B.A. from The Kellogg Graduate School of Management, Northwestern University.
About Michael I. Roth
Mr. Roth has served on the Pitney Bowes Board of Directors since 1995 and as Lead Independent Director since February 2012. Mr. Roth is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., a global marketing communications and marketing services company. Mr. Roth is also a director of Ryman Hospitality Corporation and The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
   
About Pitney Bowes
Pitney Bowes provides technology solutions for small, mid-size and large firms that help them connect with customers to build loyalty and grow revenue. The companys solutions for financial services, healthcare, legal, nonprofit, public sector and retail organizations are delivered on open platforms to best organize, analyze and apply both public and proprietary data to two-way customer communications.  Pitney Bowes is the only firm that includes direct mail, transactional mail, call centers and in-store technologies in its solution mix along with digital channels such as the Web, email, live chat and mobile applications.  Pitney Bowes is a $5.3 billion company with 29,000 employees worldwide.  Pitney Bowes: Every connection is a new opportunity.
The guidance discussed above regarding future results are inherently subject to unforeseen risks and developments.
As such, discussions about the business outlook should be read in the context of an uncertain future, as well as the risk factors identified in the safe harbor language at the end of this release and as more fully outlined in the Company's 2011 Form 10-K Annual Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This document contains forward-looking statements about our expected or potential future business and financial performance. For us forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our future revenue and earnings guidance and other statements about future events or conditions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: mail volumes; the uncertain economic environment; timely development, market acceptance and regulatory approvals, if needed, of new products; fluctuations in customer demand; changes in postal regulations; interrupted use of key information systems; management of outsourcing arrangements; foreign currency exchange rates; changes in our credit ratings; management of credit risk; changes in interest rates; the financial health of national posts; and other factors beyond our control as more fully outlined in the Company's 2011 Form 10-K Annual Report and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Pitney Bowes assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, events or developments.
3


