FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20020913115954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS
On September 13, 2003, Republic Services, Inc. issued a press release to announce that its Board of Directors had named James E. O'Connor Chairman-Elect, a copy of which is included herein by reference and attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
               (C)  Exhibit (furnished pursuant to Item 5)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1 REPUBLIC CONTACTS Media Inquiries: Will Flower (954) 769-6392 Investor Inquiries: Tod Holmes (954) 769-2387 Ed Lang (954) 769-3591 JAMES E. O'CONNOR BECOMES CHAIRMAN-ELECT OF REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC. - Wayne Huizenga to retire from chairman post at year-end 2002 Ft. Lauderdale, FL -- Sept. 13, 2002 -- Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) announced today that the Board of Directors has named James E. O'Connor Chairman-Elect, effective immediately. Mr. O'Connor will succeed H. Wayne Huizenga, who is retiring as chairman effective December 31, 2002. Mr. Huizenga will remain a member of the company's Board of Directors. Mr. O'Connor, 53, will be the second chairman in Republic's history. He will continue to serve as the company's president and chief executive officer. He will also continue to serve as a member of the Board's Executive Committee, along with Mr. Huizenga and Vice Chairman Harris W. Hudson. "I will be 65 in December and I am fortunate to be in excellent health," said Mr. Huizenga. "I want to step back from my day-to-day involvement in Republic and focus my attention on new entrepreneurial opportunities. The succession to Jim O'Connor is well-timed considering his knowledge, experience and the stability of the company. Jim is a natural leader and ideally suited to lead Republic for many years. He brings a keen strategic intellect, a valued background, strong leadership characteristics and a unique set of team-building skills. I am confident in Jim's abilities and proud of the company's performance," said Mr. Huizenga. Jim O'Connor has been the chief executive officer of Republic since he joined the firm in 1998. Prior to joining Republic, Mr. O'Connor had a successful 26-year career with
Waste Management, Inc. He began his career as a staff accountant with Waste Management in Oakbrook, Illinois, after graduating from DePaul University in 1972. From there, he moved up through the company's ranks, stopping only for a four-year period during which he managed his own solid waste collection company in Indiana. He rejoined Waste Management in 1982 and became vice president of the company's Southeastern Region in 1987. He was named senior vice president of Waste Management North America, and in 1992, he was named area president with responsibility for $1.8 billion of the company's revenue. Mr. O'Connor is married and has three children and two grandchildren. He and his wife, Cathy, reside in Coral Springs, Florida. Republic Services, Inc. is a leading provider of solid waste collection, transfer and disposal services in the United States. The Company's operating units are focused on providing solid waste services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. ###


