FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20050705162144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
     On June 28, 2005, we entered into a $750.0 million Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Administrative Agent"), Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent (the "Syndication Agent"), JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and SunTrust Bank, as co-documentation agents, the other lenders party thereto, and Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers.
     The Credit Agreement provides us with a new unsecured credit facility (the "New Credit Facility") of up to $750.0 million in revolving loans and letters of credit. The maturity date of the New Credit Facility is June 2010. At our option, borrowings under the New Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR-based rates or at prime rate based rates. We use our credit facility primarily for letters of credit required in the ordinary course of business.
     The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios and comply with certain financial covenants. We have the ability under the covenants in the Credit Agreement to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock provided that we are in compliance with the covenants.
     In the event of default under the Credit Agreement, the Administrative Agent may: (i) terminate all commitments and obligations; (ii) declare an amount equal to the maximum aggregate amount that is or at any time thereafter may become available for drawing under all outstanding letters of credit to be immediately due and payable; (iii) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable to be immediately due and payable and (iv) exercise all other rights and remedies available under the loan documents or applicable law.
     The New Credit Facility replaced our $300.0 million short-term credit facility and our $450.0 million long-term credit facility, discussed below in Item 1.02 of this Current Report.
     This description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this report, which is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 1.02 TERMINATION OF A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
     We entered into (i) a certain Long Term Credit Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2002, with the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the other entities party thereto and the lenders from time to time party thereto, and (ii) a certain Short Term Credit Agreement, dated as of July 3, 2002, with the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, the other entities party thereto and the lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively the "Existing Credit Agreements"). The Existing Credit Agreements provided credit facilities in the outstanding maximum aggregate principal amount of
 
$300.0 million under the short-term credit facility and $450.0 million under the long-term facility. We renewed the short-term facility on an annual basis. On June 28, 2005, in connection with the entering into of the New Credit Facility described in Item 1.01 of this Current Report, the Existing Credit Agreements were terminated.
ITEM 2.03 CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION
     As described in Item 1.01 of this Current Report, on June 28, 2005, we entered into a $750.0 million Credit Agreement. The description of the Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this report, which is incorporated by reference herein.
     As of June 28, 2005, we had $387.2 million of letters of credit outstanding and $362.8 million available for borrowing or additional letters of credit under the New Credit Facility.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
     Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 4.1
Conformed Copy
 
 
[Published CUSIP Number: ________________]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     This CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of June 28, 2005, among REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and a L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
     The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
     "" means any Plan which was originally established and maintained by a Person other than the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate and which became, or hereafter becomes, a Plan as a result of an Acquisition by the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Acquired Plan
     "" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of all or substantially all of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary) provided that the Borrower or the Subsidiary is the surviving entity.
Acquisition
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
     "" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
     "" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
 
     "" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
     "" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum expressed in basis points, based upon the Pricing Level for the second highest Debt Rating of the Borrower, as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
     For purposes of each of the rates set forth in the table below, for any fiscal quarter, such rates shall be the applicable rate per annum determined as of the day next following receipt by the Administrative Agent from the Borrower of evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent of the then Debt Rating.
"" means, as of any date of determination, the debt rating of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt as determined by S&P, Moody's and Fitch's (each a "", and collectively, the "")
Debt Rating
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
     The applicable Debt Rating for determining the Pricing Level shall be the second highest Debt Rating of the Borrower, , that (i) if two Debt Ratings are at the same Pricing Level and the third Debt Rating is at a lower Pricing Level than such two Debt Ratings, then the Pricing Level corresponding to the two higher Debt Ratings shall apply, and (ii) if two Debt Ratings are at the same Pricing Level and the third Debt Rating is at a higher Pricing Level than such two Debt Ratings, then the Pricing Level corresponding to the two lower Debt Ratings shall apply.
provided
 
     Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of delivery by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent of notice thereof pursuant to and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. At the Closing Date the Pricing Level is 3.
Section 4.01(a)(vi)
Section 6.03(e)
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., each in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
Arrangers
     "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit E
     "" means, with respect to any Person, on any date, (a) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease, and (b) in respect of any Securitization Transaction, the aggregate amount of obligations owed by such Person.
Attributable Indebtedness
     "" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
     "" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 8.02
     "" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
     "" means the Federal Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (11 U.S.C. 101, .), as amended from time time.
Bankruptcy Code
et
seq
     "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and
Base Rate
 
desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
     "" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
     "" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
     "" means a Committed Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
     "" means the lawful currency of Canada.
Canadian Dollars
     "" means a Letter of Credit which is denominated in Canadian Dollars.
Canadian L/C
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) any real or personal property by such Person that, in conformity with GAAP, is accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of such Person.
Capital Lease
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.03(g)
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any Law, (b) any change in any Law or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
     "" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
     (a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) shall own or control, directly or indirectly, more than 25% of the outstanding securities (on a fully diluted basis and taking into account any securities or contract rights exercisable, exchangable or convertible into equity securities) of the Borrower having voting rights in the election of directors; or
 
     (b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     "" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
     "" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
     "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
     "" means any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of a fiscal quarter.
Computation Period
     "" means, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for any Computation Period, the sum of, without duplication, (i) Consolidated Net Income, plus (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense during such period, plus (iii) taxes on income during such period,
Consolidated EBITDA
 
plus (iv) amortization during such period, plus (v) depreciation during such period, determined, to the extent applicable as a result of Acquisitions during such period, on a pro forma basis in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X of the SEC.
     "" means in respect of any Computation Period the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such Computation Period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such Computation Period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
     "" means, with respect to any Computation Period, the gross interest expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, (i) the amortization of debt discounts, (ii) the amortization of all fees payable in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness to the extent included in interest expense, (iii) the portion of any liabilities incurred in connection with Capital Leases allocable to interest expense and (iv) consolidated yield or discount accrued on the aggregate outstanding investment or claim held by purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) receivables of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with any Securitization Transaction (regardless of the accounting treatment of such Securitization Transaction).
Consolidated Interest Expense
     "" means, for any Computation Period, the gross revenues from operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, less all operating and non-operating expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including taxes on income but excluding all non-cash, nonrecurring charges and all extraordinary gains or losses.
Consolidated Net Income
     "" means the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries but excluding goodwill, franchises, licenses, patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and any other intangible assets.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
     "" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect liability of such Person, whether or not contingent, (a) with respect to any Indebtedness, lease, dividend, letter of credit or other obligation (the "primary obligations") of another Person (the "primary obligor"), including any obligation of such Person (i) to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire such primary obligations or any security therefor, (ii) to advance or provide funds for the payment or discharge of any such primary obligation, or to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency or any balance sheet item, level of income or financial condition of the primary obligor, (iii) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation, or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the holder of any such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof (each a ""); (b) with respect to any Surety Instrument issued for the account of such Person or as to which such Person is otherwise liable for reimbursement of drawings or payments; or (c) to purchase any materials, supplies or other property from, or to obtain the services of, another Person if the relevant contract or other related document or obligation requires that payment for such materials, supplies or other property, or for such services, shall be made regardless of whether delivery of such materials, supplies or other property is ever made or tendered, or such services are ever performed or tendered. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall (a) in the case of Guaranty Obligations, be deemed equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is
Contingent Obligation
Guaranty Obligation
 
made (subject to any limitation set forth in such guaranty) or, if not stated or if indeterminable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof, and (b) in the case of other Contingent Obligations, be equal to the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof.
     "" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or any foreign, Federal or state jurisdiction from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate for Eurodollar Rate Loans 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
provided
however
plus
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder and such failure to fund is continuing, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute and such failure to pay over is continuing, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
     "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
 
     "" means, with respect to a Canadian Dollar amount, the amount of Dollars into which the Canadian Dollar amount would be converted, based on the applicable Exchange Rate.
Dollar Equivalent Amount
     "" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
     "" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an Approved Fund; and (d) any other Person (other than a natural person) approved by (i) the Administrative Agent, the applicable L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender, and (ii) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower (each such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that notwithstanding the foregoing, "Eligible Assignee" shall not include the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
Eligible Assignee
provided
     "" means all written claims, however asserted, by any Governmental Authority or other Person alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law, or for release or injury to the environment.
Environmental Claims
     "" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign Laws relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
     "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a substantial cessation of operations which are treated as such a withdrawal; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Pension Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, the termination of a Multiemployer Plan under 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the
ERISA Event
 
PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which might reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Base Rate
     "" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
     Where,
     "" means, for such Interest Period:
Eurodollar Base Rate
     (a) the rate per annum equal to the British Banker's Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) as approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period.
BBA LIBOR
     (b) If such rate referenced in the preceding clause (a) is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate") for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
     "" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurodollar funding (currently referred to as "Eurodollar liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
     "" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
 
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
     "" means the Spot Rate of Exchange as of two Business Days preceding the Valuation Date.
Exchange Rate
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuers or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
     "" means that certain Long Term Credit Agreement dated as of July 3, 2002, as amended, among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as agent, and a syndicate of lenders and (ii) that certain Short Term Credit Agreement dated as of July 3, 2002, as amended, among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as agent, and a syndicate of lenders.
Existing Credit Agreement
     "" means those standby letters of credit existing on the date hereof issued under the Existing Credit Agreement and set forth on attached hereto.
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 2.03
     "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
     "" means (i) the letter agreement, dated April 13, 2005, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, and (ii) the letter agreement, dated April 13, 2005, among the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
     "" means Fitch, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Fitch
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of Contingent Obligation.
Guaranty Obligation
     "" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
     "" means, for any Person, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money; (b) all obligations issued, undertaken or assumed by such Person as the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables entered into in the ordinary course of business on ordinary terms); (c) all reimbursement or payment obligations of such Person with respect to Surety Instruments; (d) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments; (e) all indebtedness of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, or incurred as financing, in
Indebtedness
 
either case with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (f) all obligations of such Person with respect to Capital Leases; (g) Attributable Indebtedness; (h) all indebtedness of the types referred to in through above secured by (or for which the holder of such indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien upon or in property (including accounts and contracts rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Indebtedness, provided that the amount of any such Indebtedness shall be deemed to be the lesser of the face principal amount thereof and the fair market value of the property subject to such Lien; and (i) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person in respect of Indebtedness of the types described above; that Indebtedness shall not include obligations arising out of the endorsement of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. For all purposes of this Agreement, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include all Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer (other than any such Indebtedness which is expressly non-recourse to such Person).
clauses (a)
(g)
provided
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
     "" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any case, action or proceeding with respect to such Person before any court or other Governmental Authority relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, dissolution, winding-up or relief of debtors or (b) any general assignment for the benefit of creditors, composition, marshalling of assets for creditors, or other similar arrangement in respect of its creditors generally or any substantial portion of its creditors; in each case undertaken under any U.S. Federal, state or foreign law, including the Bankruptcy Code.
Insolvency Proceeding
     "" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
     "" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months (or 9 or 12 months, if offered by all Lenders) thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
     (i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
 
     (ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
     (iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
     "" means a material weakness in the Borrower's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Borrower's internal control over financial reporting and which has not been corrected by the Borrower including in all events any material weakness required to be reported in any Exchange Act report, or any fraud that involves senior management of Borrower.
Internal Control Event
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
     "" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by an L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor such L/C Issuer and relating to any such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
     "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial determinations, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all administrative orders, licenses and authorizations of any Governmental Authority applicable to Borrower and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, applicable to Borrower, any Lender or the Administrative Agent.
Laws
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
L/C Advance
     "" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of one or more Letters of Credit hereunder, together with (i) any replacement letter of credit issuer arising under and (ii) any other Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender which has agreed in writing to become an "L/C Issuer" hereunder.
L/C Issuer
Section 9.06
 
     "" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate of the Dollar amount and, as applicable, the Dollar Equivalent Amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of the Dollar amount and, as applicable, the Dollar Equivalent Amount of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.06
outstanding
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
     "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
     "" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder (including any Canadian L/C issued pursuant to ) and shall include each Existing Letter of Credit.
Letter of Credit
Section 2.03(a)(iv)
     "" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the applicable L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
     "" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.03(i)
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), or other preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, the interest of a lessor under a Capital Lease, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, but not including the interest of a lessor under an operating lease).
Lien
     "" means an extension of credit in Dollars by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
     "" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, the Fee Letters and all other documents delivered to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection herewith or therewith.
Loan Documents
     "" means "margin stock" as such term is defined in Regulation T, U or X of the FRB.
Margin Stock
 
     "" means a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, assets or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means Indebtedness, Attributable Indebtedness, Contingent Obligations and obligations under Swap Contracts of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Securitization Transaction, in an aggregate amount (or in the case of a Swap Contract having a Swap Termination Value), for all such Indebtedness, Attributable Indebtedness, Contingent Obligations, obligations under Swap Contracts and obligations in respect of Securitization Transactions, but without duplication, equal to $50,000,000 or more.
Material Financial Obligation
     "" means June 27, 2010.
Maturity Date
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means a "multiemployer plan", within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit C
     "" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
     "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
     "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
 
     "" means (i) with respect to Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (ii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions under ERISA.
PBGC
     "" means a pension plan (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), subject to Title IV of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Pension Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in
Permitted Liens
Section 7.02
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means an employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability, and includes any Pension Plan.
Plan
     "" means, with respect to any Acquired Plan, the first date on which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability with respect to such Acquired Plan.
Plan Acquisition Date
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
     "" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed in the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, counsel and attorneys-in-fact of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means, any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA or the regulations thereunder, other than any such event for which the 30-day notice requirement under ERISA has been waived in regulations issued by the PBGC.
Reportable Event
     "" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit
Request for Credit Extension
 
Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
     "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
     "" means, as to any Person, any law (statutory or common), treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or of a Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Requirement of Law
     "" means the chief executive officer, the president or any vice president of the Borrower, or any other officer having substantially the same authority and responsibility; or, with respect to financial matters, the chief financial officer, the vice president-finance, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer of the Borrower, or any other officer having substantially the same authority and responsibility; or, with respect to corporate offices and authority, the secretary or assistant secretary of the Borrower or any other officer having the same authority and responsibility. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
     "" means that amount of cash of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries reserved in a restricted trustee controlled account, as shown on the balance sheet of the Borrower, at any Computation Date, on the line item "Restricted Cash."
Restricted Cash
     "" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Borrower's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended from time to time.
Sarbanes-Oxley
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
 
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sarbanes-Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, as each of the foregoing may be amended and in effect on any applicable date hereunder.
Securities Laws
     "" means any sale, assignment or other transfer by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of accounts receivable, lease receivables or other payment obligations owing to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any interest in any of the foregoing, together in each case with any collections and other proceeds thereof, any collection or deposit accounts related thereto, and any collateral, guaranties or other property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting or securing payment by the obligor thereon of, or otherwise related to, any such receivables.
Securitization Transaction
     "" means, when used with respect to any Person, that at the time of determination:
Solvent
     (a) the fair value of its assets (both at fair valuation and at present fair saleable value on an orderly basis) is in excess of the total amount of its liabilities, including Contingent Obligations; and
     (b) it is then able and expects to be able to pay its debts as they mature; and
     (c) it has capital sufficient to carry on its business as conducted and as proposed to be conducted.
     "" means, in determining the Dollar Equivalent Amount of a specified Canadian Dollar amount as of any date, the spot exchange rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with its usual procedures for the purchase by the Administrative Agent of Dollars with Canadian Dollars at approximately 10:00 A.M. on the Business Day that is two (2) Business Days prior to such date.
Spot Rate of Exchange
     "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability Borrower or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
     "" means all letters of credit (including standby and commercial), banker's acceptances, bank guaranties, shipside bonds, surety bonds and similar instruments.
Surety Instruments
     "" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor
Swap Contract
 
transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Master Agreement
     "" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
     "" means the revolving credit facility made available by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to .
Swing Line
Section 2.04
     "" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.04
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.04(a)
     "" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.04(b)
Exhibit B
     "" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $50,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
     "" means Citibank, N.A. in its capacity as syndication agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor syndication agent.
Syndication Agent
     "" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
 
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
     "" means, at any time, the sum (determined on a consolidated basis and without duplication) of all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, excluding contingent obligations with respect to Surety Instruments (other than any letter of credit issued for the account of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to support Indebtedness of a Person other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary).
Total Debt
     "" means in respect of any Computation Period the ratio of (a) Total Debt Restricted Cash, as at the end of such Computation Period, to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such Computation Period.
Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
minus
     "" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
     "" means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
     "" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
     "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.03(c)(i)
     "" means any of (i) the date of any Credit Extension, (ii) the date of any L/C Borrowing, and (iii) any other date when there are outstanding Canadian L/Cs that the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent Amount of Canadian L/Cs.
Valuation Date
     "" means any Subsidiary in which (other than directors' qualifying shares required by law) 100% of the capital stock, membership interests or other equity interests of each class having ordinary voting power, and 100% of the capital stock, membership interests or other equity interests of every other class, in each case, at the time as of which any determination is being made, is owned, beneficially and of record, by the Borrower, or by one or more of the other Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or both.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
     . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
     (a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context
include
includes
including
shall
 
requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
     (b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
     (c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
     . (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein and without giving effect to any change in GAAP which would require the Borrower to "mark-for-market" its obligations under Swap Contracts (unless (i) the Company and the Required Lenders agree to give effect to such changes or (ii) the Borrower has recognized a gain or loss as a result of such Swap Contract).
1.03 Accounting Terms
Generally
except
     (b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
 
between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
     . Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding
     . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.05 Times of Day
     . Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
1.06 Letter of Credit Amounts
provided
however
     . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01 Committed Loans
Committed Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01.
     .
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
     (a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:30 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, or on the conversion date of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Committed Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this
Section
 
must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
2.02(a)
Sections 2.03(c)
2.04(c)
     (b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
provided
however
first
second
     (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
 
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
     (e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, unless the Administrative Agent otherwise consents, there shall not be more than twelve Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
     .
2.03 Letters of Credit
     (a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
     (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) each L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings properly drawn under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (y) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments and (z) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed. All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof. The Borrower agrees to promptly notify the Administrative Agent of the designation of any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender as an L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03
provided
plus
plus
     (ii) No L/C Issuer shall issue any Letter of Credit, if:
     (A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than eighteen months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
Section 2.03(b)(iii)
 
     (B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
     (iii) No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
     (A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to such L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that such L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which such L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which such L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it (it being understood that the applicable L/C Issuer shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any of the foregoing events or circumstances);
     (B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more applicable policies of such L/C Issuer;
     (C) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars, or, only in the case of Bank of America as L/C Issuer, in a currency other than Dollars or Canadian Dollars; or
     (D) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder.
     (iv) . On the terms and conditions set forth herein Bank of America as the L/C Issuer may issue upon request and for the account of the Borrower a standby Canadian L/C. For purposes of determining L/C Obligations, any Canadian L/C shall be recorded in the Administrative Agent's account in Dollars based on the Dollar Equivalent Amount on the date of issuance of such Canadian L/C; , , that the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent Amount of any Canadian L/C on the Valuation Date for the purpose of determining L/C Obligations. Any draw on a Canadian L/C shall be repaid in Canadian Dollars in an amount equal to the amount of the draw in Canadian Dollars. If at any time there is a drawing under a Canadian L/C and the Borrower shall not promptly reimburse such drawing as provided in , the Borrower shall be obligated to immediately repay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders an amount in Dollars equal to the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the Canadian Dollars paid by Bank of America as the L/C Issuer to the beneficiary of such Canadian L/C on the date of such drawing.
Canadian Letters of Credit
provided
however
Section 2.3(c)
 
     (v) No L/C Issuer shall amend any Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
     (vi) No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
     (vii) Each L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and each L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included each L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to each L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
     (b) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
     (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the applicable L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the applicable L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the applicable L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as such L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
 
     (ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, such L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the applicable L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with such L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the applicable L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
     (iii) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit such L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that such L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) such L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of clause (ii) or (iii) of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is five Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
Section 2.03(a)
Section 4.02
     (iv) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the applicable L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
 
     (c) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
     (i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof. Not later than 11:00 a.m. on the date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing. If the Borrower fails to so reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice). Any notice given by the applicable L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(i)
provided
     (ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer at the Administrative Agent's Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the applicable L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
     (iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
Section 2.03
     (iv) Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)
 
     (v) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Committed Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by such L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.03(c)
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 4.02
     (vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , such L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by such L/C Issuer in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the applicable L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after the applicable L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of such L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's L/C Advance was outstanding) in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.03(c)
     (ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by such L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 10.05
 
Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
     (e) . The obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
     (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
     (ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the applicable L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
     (iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
     (iv) any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
     (v) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower.
     The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will immediately notify the applicable L/C Issuer. The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the applicable L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
     (f) . Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the
Role of L/C Issuer
 
applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the applicable L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of such L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against such L/C Issuer, and such L/C Issuer may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves were caused by such L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or such L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the applicable L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and such L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
provided
however
Section 2.03(e)
provided
however
     (g) . Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (i) if the applicable L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations. and set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this , and , "" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the applicable L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuers and the Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
Cash Collateral
Sections 2.05
8.02(c)
Section 2.03
Section 2.05
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collateralize
     (h) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement
Applicability of ISP
 
applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), the rules of the ISP shall apply to each Letter of Credit.
     (i) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage a Letter of Credit fee (the "Letter of Credit Fee") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit, or in the case of a Canadian L/C the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such daily amount available to be drawn under such Canadian L/C. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears and (ii) due and payable on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
times
Section 1.06
     (j) . The Borrower shall pay directly to each L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer in an amount to be determined by the Borrower and the applicable L/C Issuer. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable in full by the Borrower to the applicable L/C Issuers, with respect to each Letter of Credit, quarterly in advance on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, the Borrower shall pay directly to each L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of such L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 1.06
     (k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
     .
2.04 Swing Line Loans
     (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may
The Swing Line
Section 2.04
Swing Line Loan
 
exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be deemed a Base Rate Loan notwithstanding anything to the contrary in regarding the interest rate applicable to such Swing Line Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.04
Section 2.05
Section 2.04
Section 2.08(a)(iii)
     (b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $100,000 or an integral multiple thereof, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower at its office by crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Swing Line Lender in immediately available funds.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.04(a)
Article IV
     (c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
     (i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance
 
with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
     (ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
     (iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
     (iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.02
 
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
     (ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
     (e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.04
     (f) . The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
     .
2.05 Prepayments
     (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:30 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment
provided
Section 3.05
 
shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
     (b) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
     (c) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.
provided
however
Section 2.05(c)
     . The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:30 a.m. three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.06 Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
     .
2.07 Repayment of Loans
     (a) The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans outstanding on such date.
     (b) The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the fourth Business Day following the giving of notice by the Swing Line Lender to the Borrower and (ii) the Maturity Date.
     .
2.08 Interest
     (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii)
plus
 
each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate or such other rate as may be agreed to from time to time by the Borrower and the Swing Line Lender; that after any purchase by the Lenders of a participation in any Swing Line Loan, the rate of interest on such Swing Line Loan shall not be less than the Base Rate.
provided
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (after giving affect to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
     . In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
2.09 Fees
Section 2.03
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
 
first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
     (b) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a utilization fee equal to the Applicable Rate the Total Outstandings on each day that the Total Outstandings exceed 50% of the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect (or, if terminated, in effect immediately prior to such termination). The utilization fee shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date. The utilization fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate for each period during which such Applicable Rate was in effect. The utilization fee shall accrue at all times, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met.
Utilization Fee
times
Article IV
     (c) .
Other Fees
     (i) The Borrower shall pay to the Arranger and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
     (ii) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
     . All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.10 Computation of Interest and Fees
provided
Section 2.12(a)
     .
2.11 Evidence of Debt
     (a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each
 
Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     (b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
     .
2.12 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
     (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the applicable Borrowing. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
     (ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or any L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
     A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
     (c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
 
     (d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
     (e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
     . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.13 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
     (i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
     The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
     .
3.01 Taxes
     (a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
     (b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
     (c) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each L/C Issuer, within 30 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document or otherwise relating to the Loan Documents the transactions contemplated hereby and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or a L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or a L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrower
     (d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
     (e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed
Status of Lenders
 
documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
     (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
     (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
     (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , (i) if any Lender fails to notify the Borrower of any event or circumstance which will entitle such Lender to compensation pursuant to this within 60 days after such Lender obtains knowledge of such event or circumstance, then such Lender shall not be entitled to compensation from the Borrower for any amount arising prior to the date which is 60 days before the date on which such Lender notifies the Borrower of such event or circumstance; and (ii) the Borrower shall not be required to pay an additional amount to, or to indemnify, any Lender pursuant to this to the extent that (x) the obligation to withhold or pay such amount existed on the Initial Date (as defined below) or (y) the obligation to withhold or pay such amount would not have arisen but for the failure of such Lender to comply with the provisions of of this Agreement. For purposes of clause (ii) of the foregoing sentence "Initial Date" means (A) in the case of any Lender that is a signatory hereto, the date of this Agreement, (B) in the case of any Person which subsequently becomes a Lender hereunder, the date of the applicable Assignment and Assumption, and (C) in the case of any Participant, the date on which it becomes a Participant.
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
Section 9.09
 
     (f) . If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
     . If any Lender reasonably determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the Borrower's option, prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality
     . If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan , or (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
 
receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
     .
3.04 Increased Costs
     (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate) or any L/C Issuer;
     (ii) subject any Lender or any L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or such L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer); or
Section 3.01
     (iii) impose on any Lender or any L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or such L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) . If any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or such L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount
Capital Requirements
 
or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
     (c) . A certificate of a Lender or a L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section, together with a brief explanation for the increased costs and the basis for the calculation thereof, and delivered to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
     (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or a L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than 60 days prior to the date that such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 60-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
     . Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
     (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
     (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss of anticipated profits and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
     For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
 
     .
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
     (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
     (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
     . All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07 Survival
Article III
     . The obligation of each L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
     (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
     (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent each Lender and the Borrower;
     (ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
     (iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party;
 
     (iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (v) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (A) stating that the representations and warranties contained in are true and correct on and as of such date, as though made on and as of such date; (B) stating there is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending or threatened in any court or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority that purports (i) to materially and adversely affect the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, or (ii) to affect any transaction contemplated hereby or the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and (C) either (i) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and the validity against the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (ii) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required ;
Article V
     (vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (B) the current Debt Ratings.
     (vii) evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement has been or concurrently with the Closing Date is being terminated and all amounts thereunder shall have been paid; and
     (viii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, the applicable L/C Issuers, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
     (b) a favorable opinion of Akerman Senterfitt & Eidson, P.A., counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender in the form attached hereto as .
Exhibit F
     (c) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
     (d) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
 
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
     . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Credit Extensions
     (a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in , other than , or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of .
Article V
Section 5.11(b)
Section 4.02
Section 5.11(a)
Section 6.01
     (b) No Default or Event of Default shall exist or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
     (c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the applicable L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
     Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
     . The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries:
5.01 Corporate Existence and Power
     (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization;
     (b) has the power and authority and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals (i) to own its assets and to carry on its business and (ii) to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party;
 
     (c) is duly qualified to do business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification; and
     (d) is in compliance with all Requirements of Law;
except, in each case referred to in , or , to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
subclause (b)(i)
clause (c)
clause (d)
     . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of each Loan Document to which such Person is party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not and will not:
5.02 Corporate Authorization; No Contravention
     (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents;
     (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, any document evidencing any material Contractual Obligation to which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority to which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or any of its or their property is subject; or
     (c) violate any Requirement of Law.
     . No approval, consent, exemption, authorization or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority (other than any of the foregoing which has been obtained or made and is in full force and effect) is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, the Borrower of the Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.03 Governmental Authorization
     . This Agreement and each other Loan Document constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, to the extent such Person is a party thereto, enforceable against such Person in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability.
5.04 Binding Effect
     . There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, against the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties; (a) which purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; or (b) as to which there exists a reasonable likelihood of an adverse determination, which determination would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Borrower to pay and perform the Obligations. No injunction, writ, temporary restraining order or other order of any nature has been issued by any court or other Governmental Authority purporting to enjoin or restrain the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or directing that the transactions provided for herein or therein not be consummated as herein or therein provided.
5.05 Litigation
 
     . No Default or Event of Default exists or would result from the incurring of any Obligations by the Borrower. As of the Closing Date, neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation in any respect which, individually or together with all such defaults, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.06 No Default
     . Except as specifically disclosed in :
5.07 ERISA Compliance
Schedule 5.07
     (a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law (or, in the case of an Acquired Plan, can be brought into such compliance without any material fine, penalty or other liability). Except for Acquired Plans with respect to which the failure to have received a qualification letter would not result in any material fine, penalty or other liability, each Plan which is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS (or will be submitted for a determination letter within the applicable remedial amendment period), and to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would cause the loss of such qualification. The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate has made all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code (except for contributions to Acquired Plans not made prior to the respective Plan Acquisition Dates and which do not in the aggregate exceed $1,000,000 for any Acquired Plan), and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
     (b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no contribution failure has occurred with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA; (iii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (v) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Section 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (vi) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
     . The proceeds of the Loans will be used solely for the purposes set forth in and permitted by and Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is generally engaged in the business of purchasing or selling Margin Stock or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
5.08 Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations
Section 6.12
Section 7.08.
 
     . The Borrower and each Subsidiary have good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of their respective businesses, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Closing Date, the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Permitted Liens.
5.09 Title to Properties
     . The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10 Taxes
     .
5.11 Financial Condition
     (a) The Audited Financial Statements and (2) the unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries dated March 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date:
     (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein (subject, in the case of the unaudited interim statements, to the absence of footnotes and to ordinary, good faith year-end audit adjustments);
     (ii) fairly present (subject, in the case of the unaudited interim statements, to ordinary, good faith year-end audit adjustments) the financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the results of operations for the periods covered thereby; and
     (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, absolute or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof, including liabilities for taxes and material Contingent Obligations.
     (b) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . The Borrower conducts in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and existing Environmental Claims on its business, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that, except as specifically disclosed in , such Environmental Laws and Environmental Claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.12 Environmental Matters
Schedule 5.13
 
     . None of the Borrower, any Person controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is an "Investment Company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Borrower is not subject to regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the Federal Power Act, the Interstate Commerce Act, any state public utilities code, or any other Federal or state statute or regulation limiting its ability to incur Indebtedness.
5.13 Regulated Entities
     . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to or bound by any Contractual Obligation, or subject to any restriction in any Organization Document or any Requirement of Law, which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.14 No Burdensome Restrictions
     . The Borrower or its Subsidiaries own or are licensed or otherwise have the right to use all of the material patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, contractual franchises, authorizations and other rights that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person, except to the extent failure to own, license or otherwise have the right to use any such item, or any such conflict, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and which is material to the business or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, infringes upon any rights held by any other Person (excluding infringements which could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect).
5.15 Copyrights, Patents, Trademarks and Licenses, etc
     . As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in of and has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity other than those specifically disclosed in of .
5.16 Subsidiaries
part (a)
Schedule 5.17
part (b)
Schedule 5.17
     . The properties (except to the extent such property, individually or in the aggregate, is not material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies (or are self-insured) in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates.
5.17 Insurance
     . The Borrower is Solvent after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents.
5.18 Solvency
     . The representations and warranties made by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the Loan Documents as of the date such representations and warranties are made or deemed made, and the statements contained in any exhibit, report, statement or certificate furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with the Loan Documents, taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made
5.19 Full Disclosure
 
therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading in any material respect as of the time when made or delivered.
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, unless the Required Lenders waive compliance in writing:
     . The Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, with sufficient copies for each Lender:
6.01 Financial Statements
     (a) as soon as available, but not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated financial statements to be accompanied by (i) a report of Ernst & Young LLP or another nationally-recognized Registered Public Accounting Firm (the "Independent Auditor"), which report shall be prepared in accordance with the audit standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and shall not be subject to any going concern or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit, and (ii) a report of such Independent Auditor as to the Borrower's attestation as to internal controls pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley expressing a conclusion of which the Required Lenders do not object; that the reports and opinions delivered pursuant to this Section shall not be qualified or limited because of a restricted or limited examination by the Independent Auditor of any material portion of the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's records; and
provided
     (b) as soon as available, but not later than 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2005), a copy of the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the period commencing on the first day and ending on the last day of such quarter, and certified by a Responsible Officer as fairly presenting, in accordance with GAAP (subject to the absence of footnotes and to ordinary, good faith year-end audit adjustments), the financial position and the results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of such date and for such period.
     . The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent, with sufficient copies for each Lender:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
     (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a Compliance Certificate executed by a Responsible Officer;
subsections 6.01(a)
(b)
 
     (b) promptly after their becoming available, copies of all financial statements and reports that the Borrower sends to its shareholders, and copies of all financial statements and regular, periodic or special reports (including Forms 10K, 10Q and 8K) that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may make to, or file with, the SEC; and
     (c) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any Lender, may from time to time reasonably request.
     Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the earlier of (i) the date on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; and (ii) the date on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); provided that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent (with sufficient copies for each Lender). Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
Schedule 10.02
i.e.
Section 6.02(a)
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "Borrower Materials") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "Platform") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (, Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a "Public Lender"). The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ; (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are
i.e.
provided
however
Section 10.07)
 
permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
     . The Borrower shall promptly (or, in the case of any event described in below, not less than 10 days prior to the occurrence of such event) notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
clause (c)(ii)
     (a) of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default known to the Borrower;
     (b) of any matter that has resulted or is reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including:
     (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
     (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or
     (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
     (c) of the occurrence of any of the following events known to the Borrower which affect the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate, and deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender a copy of any notice with respect to such event that is filed with a Governmental Authority and any notice delivered by a Governmental Authority to the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate with respect to such event:
     (i) an ERISA Event;
     (ii) a contribution failure with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA;
     (iii) a material increase in the Unfunded Pension Liability of any Pension Plan;
     (iv) the adoption of, or the commencement of contributions to, any Pension Plan by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate; or
     (v) the adoption of any amendment to a Pension Plan if such amendment results in a material increase in contributions or Unfunded Pension Liability;
     (d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries;
     (e) the occurrence of an Internal Control Event; and
 
     (f) promptly upon the issuance thereof, deliver to the Administrative Agent notice of any announcement by Moody's, S&P or Fitch (i) of any change in any Debt Rating or (ii) that any Debt Rating will be put on a "negative outlook" or "negative credit watch."
Each notice under this Section shall be accompanied by a written statement by a Responsible Officer setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein, and stating what action the Borrower or any affected Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice under shall describe with particularity any and all clauses or provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document that have been breached or violated.
Section 6.03(a)
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to (provided that nothing in this shall prevent the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, not under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, of any Subsidiary so long as no Event of Default exists and no Default or Event of Default will result therefrom):
6.04 Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
Section 6.04
     (a) preserve and maintain in full force and effect its existence and good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization;
     (b) preserve and maintain in full force and effect all governmental rights, privileges, qualifications, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business (except in connection with transactions permitted by and sales of assets permitted by ;
Section 7.04
Section 7.03)
     (c) use reasonable efforts, in the ordinary course of business, to preserve its business organization and goodwill; and
     (d) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, maintain and preserve all its property which is used or useful in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Maintenance of Property
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable independent insurers (or pursuant to a self-insurance program), insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
6.06 Insurance
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, pay and discharge, as the same shall become due and payable, all their respective material obligations and liabilities, including: (a) all material tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets and (b) all material claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property, , in each case, the same
6.07 Payment Obligations
unless
 
are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, comply with (i) all Requirements of Law of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over it or its business (including the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act) and (ii) any Contractual Obligation to which it is bound, in both cases the non-compliance with which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws; Contractual Obligations
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its ERISA Affiliates to: (a) maintain each Plan in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law; (b) cause each Plan which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code to maintain such qualification; and (c) make all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, it being understood that any non-compliance with , or with respect to an Acquired Plan existing on the Plan Acquisition Date for such Acquired Plan shall not constitute a violation of this so long as (i) the Borrower is diligently proceeding to remedy such non-compliance and (ii) such non-compliance will not result in any material fine, penalty or other liability.
6.09 Compliance with ERISA
clause (a)
(b)
(c)
Section 6.09
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries (sufficient to permit the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP) shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower and such Subsidiary. The Borrower shall permit, and shall cause each Subsidiary to permit, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or their respective representatives (in each case at such Person's own expense unless an Event of Default exists), upon reasonable notice at any reasonable time during normal business hours and from time to time at the request of the Administrative Agent or the relevant Lender, to visit and inspect the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (and, if (i) any Default exists and has been continuing for 15 days or (ii) any Event of Default exists, to make copies or abstracts of their respective corporate, financial and operating records), and to examine the properties and books and records of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the appropriate officers, employees or authorized agents of the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
6.10 Inspection of Property and Books and Records
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, conduct its operations and keep and maintain its property in material compliance with all material Environmental Laws. Without limiting the foregoing, the Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, (i) maintain all material operating permits for all landfills now owned or hereafter acquired; and (ii) dispose of hazardous waste only at licensed disposal facilities operating, to the best of the Borrower's or the applicable Subsidiary's knowledge after reasonable inquiry, in material compliance with all material Environmental Laws.
6.11 Environmental Laws
     . The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loans (i) to repay the Indebtedness of the Borrower under, and to terminate, the Existing Credit Agreement, and (ii) for working capital, capital expenditures, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes (including commercial paper backup and Acquisitions) not in contravention of any
6.12 Use of Proceeds
 
Requirement of Law or of any Loan Document; that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Loan to make any Acquisition if the board of directors of the Person to be acquired has not approved such Acquisition.
provided
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, unless the Required Lenders waive compliance in writing:
     .
7.01 Financial Condition Covenants
     (a) . The Borrower shall not permit its Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
     (b) . The Borrower shall not permit, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter at any time on and after June 30, 2005, the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio for the Computation Period ending on such day to be greater than 3.25 to 1.
Maximum Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not suffer or permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, make, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to any part of its property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following (""):
7.02 Limitation on Liens
Permitted Liens
     (a) any Lien existing on the Closing Date and set forth in , and any extension, renewal or replacement of any such Lien so long as the principal amount secured thereby is not increased and the scope of the property subject to such Lien is not extended;
Schedule 7.02
     (b) Liens imposed by law for taxes, assessments or charges of any Governmental Authority for claims not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained in accordance with GAAP;
     (c) statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and other Liens imposed by law or created in the ordinary course of business and in existence less than 120 days from the date of creation thereof for amounts not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained in accordance with GAAP;
     (d) Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA) consisting of pledges or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation;
     (e) Liens on the property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary securing (i) the non-delinquent performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases,
 
statutory obligations, (ii) surety bonds (excluding appeal bonds and other bonds posted in connection with court proceedings or judgments) and (iii) other non-delinquent obligations of a like nature in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business, provided all such Liens in the aggregate would not (even if enforced) cause a Material Adverse Effect;
     (f) Liens consisting of judgment or judicial attachment liens and liens securing contingent obligations on appeal bonds and other bonds posted in connection with court proceedings or judgments, provided that (i) in the case of judgment and judicial attachment liens, the enforcement of such Liens is effectively stayed and (ii) all such liens in the aggregate at any time outstanding for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries do not exceed $50,000,000;
     (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, individually or in the aggregate, do not materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the businesses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
     (h) Liens securing obligations in respect of Capital Leases and purchase money financings on assets subject to such leases or financings, provided that such Capital Leases and purchase money financings are otherwise permitted under ;
Section 7.06(b)
     (i) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution; that (i) such deposit account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against access by the Borrower in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by the FRB, and (ii) such deposit account is not intended by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to provide collateral to the depository institution; and
provided
     (j) other Liens, in addition to those permitted by through , securing Indebtedness or arising in connection with Securitization Transactions; that the sum (without duplication) of all such Indebtedness, plus the aggregate investment or claim held at any time by all purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) receivables and other rights to payment in all Securitization Transactions, shall not at any time exceed $50,000,000 in aggregate outstanding amount.
clauses (a)
(h)
provided
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, lease, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose of (whether in one or a series of transactions) any property (including accounts and notes receivable, with or without recourse) or enter into any agreement to do any of the foregoing (including any sale-leaseback), except:
7.03 Disposition of Assets
     (a) dispositions of inventory, or used, worn-out or surplus equipment, all in the ordinary course of business;
     (b) the sale, assignment or other transfer of accounts receivable, lease receivables or other rights to payment pursuant to any Securitization Transaction; and
 
     (c) dispositions not otherwise permitted hereunder which are made for fair market value; provided that (i) at the time of any such disposition, no Event of Default shall exist or shall result from such disposition and (ii) the aggregate value of all assets so disposed of by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any one-year period (calculated as of the date of any such disposition) shall not exceed 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, merge, consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any other Person, except:
7.04 Consolidations and Mergers
     (a) any Subsidiary may merge with the Borrower, provided that the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving corporation, or with any one or more Subsidiaries, provided that if any transaction shall be between a Subsidiary and a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, the Wholly-Owned Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving corporation;
     (b) any Subsidiary may sell all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or another Wholly-Owned Subsidiary; and
     (c) any merger, consolidation or disposition in connection with a transaction permitted by or an Acquisition permitted by .
Section 7.03
Section 7.05
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, purchase or acquire, or make any commitment to purchase or acquire, any capital stock, equity interest or obligations or other securities of, or any interest in, any Person, or make or commit to make any Acquisition, or make or commit to make any advance, loan, extension of credit or capital contribution to or any other investment in any Person (including any Affiliate of the Borrower) (any of the foregoing an "Investment"), unless (y) such loan, advance, investment, acquisition or other purchase does not cause the Borrower to violate the financial covenants contained in or , and (z) no Default or Event of Default would result therefrom.
7.05 Loans and Investments
Section 7.01(a)
(b)
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness secured directly or indirectly by assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary other than the following:
7.06 Limitation on Secured Indebtedness
     (a) secured Indebtedness existing on the Closing Date and listed on (including any extensions, renewals and refinancings thereof so long as the principal amount thereof is not increased);
Schedule 7.06
     (b) Capital Leases and purchase money financings on assets subject to such leases or financings;
     (c) Indebtedness secured by letters of credit; and
     (d) other secured Indebtedness not exceeding in the aggregate at any time an outstanding amount of $50,000,000.
 
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction with any Affiliate of the Borrower (other than the Borrower or a Subsidiary), except upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate of the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
7.07 Transactions with Affiliates
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, use any portion of the Loan proceeds or any Letter of Credit, directly or indirectly, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock, (ii) to repay or otherwise refinance indebtedness of the Borrower or others incurred to purchase or carry Margin Stock or (iii) to extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock.
7.08 Use of Proceeds
     . The Borrower shall not (i) declare or make any dividend payment or other distribution of assets, properties, cash, rights, obligations or securities on account of any shares of any class of its capital stock or (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for value, or permit any Subsidiary to purchase or otherwise acquire for value, any shares of the Borrower's capital stock or any warrants, rights or options to acquire such shares, now or hereafter outstanding, unless (y) such dividend or distribution, purchase redemption or other acquisition does not cause the Borrower to violate the financial covenants contained in or , and (z) no Default or Event of Default would result therefrom.
7.09 Restricted Payments
Section 7.01(a)
(b)
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any of its ERISA Affiliates to: (a) engage in a prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower in an aggregate amount in excess of $20,000,000; or (b) engage in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
7.10 ERISA
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, engage in any material line of business other than those lines of business carried on by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof and lines of business complementary thereto; that in no event will the Borrower permit a material portion of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to involve or relate to hazardous waste.
7.11 Change in Business
provided
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, make any significant change in accounting treatment or reporting practices, except as required by GAAP.
7.12 Accounting Changes
     . The Borrower shall not enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that (a) limits the ability (i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to the Borrower or to otherwise transfer property to the Borrower, (ii) of any Subsidiary to guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower or (iii) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person; or (b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person; except, in each case, (1) as required under applicable Requirements of Law, (2) as required under the Loan Documents, (3) for Permitted Liens, and (4) for prohibitions on assignment or transfer contained in leases.
7.13 Burdensome Agreements
 
     . Any of the following shall constitute an "Event of Default":
8.01 Event of Default
     (a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan or the principal amount of any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within five days after the same becomes due, any interest, fee or any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document.
Non-Payment
     (b) . Any representation or warranty by the Borrower or any Subsidiary made or deemed made herein or in any other Loan Document, or which is contained in any certificate, document or financial or other statement by the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any Responsible Officer furnished at any time under this Agreement or under any other Loan Document, is incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made.
Representation or Warranty
     (c) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of or .
Specific Defaults
subsection 6.03(a)
Article VII
     (d) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after the date upon which written notice thereof is given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Other Defaults
     (e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment of Material Financial Obligations when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise, but after giving effect to any applicable grace or cure period); or (B) fails to perform or observe any other condition or covenant, or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist, under one or more agreements or instruments relating to Material Financial Obligations, if the effect of such failure, event or condition (after giving effect to any applicable grace or cure period) is to cause (or require), or to permit the holder or holders of such Material Financial Obligations or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Material Financial Obligations (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause (or require), such Material Financial Obligations to become due and payable (or to be purchased, repurchased, defeased or cash collateralized) prior to the stated maturity thereof.
Cross-Default
     (f) . The Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) ceases or fails to be solvent, or generally fails to pay, or admits in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, subject to applicable grace periods, if any, whether at stated maturity or otherwise; (ii) voluntarily ceases to conduct its business in the ordinary course; (iii) commences any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to itself; or (iv) takes any action to effectuate or authorize any of the foregoing; that the foregoing shall not apply to the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of a Subsidiary permitted by .
Insolvency, Voluntary Proceedings
provided
Section 6.04
     (g) . (i) Any involuntary Insolvency Proceeding is commenced or filed against the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any writ, judgment, warrant of
Involuntary Proceedings
 
attachment, execution or similar process is issued or levied against a substantial part of the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's properties, and such proceeding or petition shall not be dismissed, or such writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process shall not be released, vacated or fully bonded, within 60 days after commencement, filing or levy; (ii) the Borrower or any Subsidiary admits the material allegations of a petition against it in any Insolvency Proceeding, or an order for relief (or similar order under non-U.S. law) is ordered in any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to the Borrower or such Subsidiary; or (iii) the Borrower or any Subsidiary acquiesces in the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, mortgagee in possession (or agent therefor), or other similar Person for itself or a substantial portion of its property or business.
     (h) . (i) An ERISA Event shall occur with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $20,000,000; (ii) a contribution failure shall occur with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA; or (iii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period (or any period during which (x) the Borrower is permitted to contest its obligation to make such payment without incurring any liability (other than interest) or penalty and (y) the Borrower is contesting such obligation in good faith and by appropriate proceedings), any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA or any contribution obligation under Section 4243 of ERISA, in each case under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $20,000,000.
ERISA
     (i) . One or more non-interlocutory judgments, non-interlocutory orders, decrees or arbitration awards is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary involving in the aggregate a liability (to the extent not covered by insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage) as to any single or related series of transactions, incidents or conditions of $50,000,000 or more, and the same shall remain unvacated and unstayed pending appeal for a period of 25 days after the entry thereof.
Judgments
     (j) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
     (k) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document.
Invalidity of Loan Documents
     . If any Event of Default occurs, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders:
8.02 Remedies
     (a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans (including the commitment of the Swing Line Lender to make Swing Line Loans) and any obligation of each
 
Issuing Lender to Issue Letters of Credit to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
     (b) declare an amount equal to the maximum aggregate amount that is or at any time thereafter may become available for drawing under all outstanding Letters of Credit (whether or not any beneficiary shall have presented, or shall be entitled at such time to present, the drafts or other documents required to draw under such Letters of Credit) to be immediately due and payable, and declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
     (c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all other rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents or applicable law;
, , that upon the occurrence of any event specified in or of (in the case of of , upon the expiration of the 60-day period mentioned therein), the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of each Issuing Lender to Issue Letters of Credit shall automatically terminate and the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable without further act of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lender or any other Lender. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of any declaration described in or of the preceding sentence, but failure to give any such notice shall not impair any such declaration or result in any liability to the Administrative Agent.
provided
however
subsection (f)
(g)
Section 8.01
clause (i)
subsection (g)
clause (a)
(b)
     . The rights provided for in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights, powers, privileges or remedies provided by law or in equity, or under any other instrument, document or agreement now existing or hereafter arising.
8.03 Rights Not Exclusive
     . After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.04 Application of Receipts
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and L/C Issuers and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
 
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
     , to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuers, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and
Fifth
     , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.03(c)
Fifth
     . Each of the Lenders and each L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article, except hereof, are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions, except hereof.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
Section 9.06
Section 9.06
     . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.02 Rights as a Lender
     . The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
 
     (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
     (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or a L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
     The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
     . The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or such L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
the contrary from such Lender or such L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
     . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties
     . The Administrative Agent may at any time resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' prior notice to the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States and which successor administrative agent shall be consented to by the Borrower at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment prior to the effective date of resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and in consultation with the Borrower, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; provided that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and each L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
Section 10.04
 
     Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as a L/C Issuer and as Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
     . Each Lender and each L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
     . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the syndication agent, co-documentation agents, joint lead arrangers or joint book managers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, a Lender or a L/C Issuer hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
     . In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.03(i)
(j)
2.09
10.04
     (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and each L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
     Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or any L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
     . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders (or by the Administrative Agent at the written request of the Required Lenders) and the Borrower and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01 Amendments, Etc
provided
however
     (a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
     (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
     (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
     (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
provided
however
     (e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 2.13
Section 8.03
 
     (f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the applicable L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the applicable L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) either Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
     .
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
     (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
     (i) if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Bank of America as the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
     (ii) if to any other Lender or L/C Issuer, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
     (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or any
Electronic Communications
provided
 
L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Article II
provided
     Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
     (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "Agent Parties") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
provided
however
     (d) . Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address,
Change of Address, Etc
 
contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.
     (e) . The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except, in the case of any of the foregoing persons who are seeking indemnification hereunder, to the extent such reliance resulted from such Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
     . No failure by any Lender, any L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
     .
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer, including the reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
 
     (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, including the reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys who may be employees of an Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the applicable L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
     (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), each L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), such L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.12(d)
     (d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
 
Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
     (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
     (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and Bank of America as an L/C Issuer, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
     . To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, such L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and each L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside
     .
10.06 Successors and Assigns
     (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
     (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that
Assignments by Lenders
provided
     (i) except in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to a Lender, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met;
provided
however
     (ii) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to rights in respect of Swing Line Loans;
     (iii) any assignment of a Commitment must be approved by the Administrative Agent, the applicable L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender unless the Person that is the proposed assignee is itself a Lender (whether or not the proposed assignee would otherwise qualify as an Eligible Assignee); and
     (iv) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount, if any, required as set forth in , and the Eligible Assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Schedule 10.06
     Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and
 
Assumption, the Eligible Assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned and assumed by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
     (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by each of the Borrower and each L/C Issuer at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. In addition, at any time that a request for a consent for a material or substantive change to the Loan Documents is pending, any Lender may request and receive from the Administrative Agent a copy of the Register.
Register
Register
     (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries ) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
     Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
 
to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
3.05
Section 10.08
Section 2.13
     (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
     (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
     (g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
     (h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' prior notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' prior notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of a L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
 
participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to . Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such successor or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Section 2.04(c)
     . Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives on a need-to-know basis (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
     For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed reasonable compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
 
     . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, each L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, after giving prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or such L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, such L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, such L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
     . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
     . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
 
delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
     . If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
     . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
10.13 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
     (a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
     (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
     (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
     (d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
     A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
     .
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
     (a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
GOVERNING LAW
     (b) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA SITTING IN BROWARD COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH FLORIDA STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
     (c) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
     (d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
     . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial
 
INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
     . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
10.16 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
     .
10.17 ENTIRE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT AMONG THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
SCHEDULE 2.03
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 5.07
 
SCHEDULE 5.13
 
SCHEDULE 5.17
  .
Part (a).
Subsidiaries
623 Landfill, Inc. A-Best Disposal, Inc. Ace Disposal Services, Inc. ADAJ Corporation Anderson Refuse Co., Inc. Anderson Solid Waste, Inc. Arc Disposal Company, Inc. Ariana, LLC Astro Waste Services, Inc. Atlas Transport, Inc. Barker Brothers Waste Incorporated Barker Brothers, Inc. Bay Collection Services, Inc. Bay Environmental Management, Inc. Bay Landfills, Inc. Bay Leasing Company, Inc. Berkeley Sanitary Service, Inc. Berrien County Landfill, Inc. BLT Enterprises of Oxnard, Inc. Bluegrass Recycling & Transfer Company Bom Ambiente Insurance Company Bosman Bros., Inc. Calvert Trash Service Incorporated Calvert Trash Systems, Incorporated Capital Waste & Recycling, Inc. Central Virginia Properties, LLC Commercial Waste Disposal , Inc. Compactor Rental Systems of Delaware, Inc. Consolidated Disposal Service, LLC Continental Waste Industries  Gary, Inc. Continental Waste Industries, L.L.C. Covington Waste, Inc. Crockett Sanitary Service, Inc. CWI of Florida, Inc. CWI of Illinois, Inc. CWI of Missouri, Inc. CWI of Northwest Indiana, Inc.
 
E & P Investment Corporation Envirocycle, Inc. Environmental Specialists, Inc. FLL, Inc. G.E.M. Environmental Management, Inc. Gilliam Transfer, Inc. Golden Bear Transfer Services, Inc. Greenfield Environmental Development Corp. Hanks Disposal, Inc. HMD Waste, L.L.C. Honeygo Run Reclamation Center, Inc. Hyder Waste Container, Inc. Indiana Recycling, LLC Jamax Corporation K & K Trash Removal, Inc. McCusker Recycling, Inc. M-G Disposal Service, LLC Midwest Material Management, Inc. Modern-Mallard Energy, LLC Noble Risley, Jr. & Sons, Inc. Northwest Tennessee Disposal Corp. Nove Investments I, LLC Oceanside Waste & Recycling Services Ohio Republic Contracts, II, Inc. Ohio Republic Contracts, Inc. Peninsula Waste Systems, LLC Perdomo & Sons, Inc. Perdomo/BLT Enterprises, LLC Potrero Hills Landfill, Inc. Prichard Landfill Corporation Reliable Disposal, Inc. Republic Acquisition Company Republic Dumpco, Inc. Republic Environmental Technologies, Inc. Republic Services Aviation, Inc. Republic Services Financial LP, Inc. Republic Services Financial, Limited Partnership Republic Services Group, LLC Republic Services Holding Company, Inc. Republic Services of Arizona Hauling, LLC Republic Services of Buffalo, LLC Republic Services of California Holding Company, Inc. Republic Services of California I, LLC Republic Services of California II, LLC Republic Services of Canada, Inc.
 
Republic Services of Colorado Hauling, LLC Republic Services of Colorado I, LLC Republic Services of Florida GP, Inc. Republic Services of Florida LP, Inc. Republic Services of Florida, Limited Partnership Republic Services of Georgia GP, LLC Republic Services of Georgia LP, LLC Republic Services of Georgia, Limited Partnership Republic Services of Indiana LP, Inc. Republic Services of Indiana Transportation, LLC Republic Services of Indiana, Limited Partnership Republic Services of Kentucky, LLC Republic Services of Maryland, LLC Republic Services of Michigan Hauling, LLC Republic Services of Michigan Holding Company, Inc. Republic Services of Michigan I, LLC Republic Services of Michigan II, LLC Republic Services of Michigan III, LLC Republic Services of Michigan IV, LLC Republic Services of Michigan V, LLC Republic Services of New Jersey, LLC Republic Services of North Carolina, LLC Republic Services of Ohio Hauling, LLC Republic Services of Ohio I, LLC Republic Services of Ohio II, LLC Republic Services of Ohio III, LLC Republic Services of Ohio IV, LLC Republic Services of Pennsylvania, LLC Republic Services of South Carolina, LLC Republic Services of Southern California, LLC Republic Services of Tennessee, LLC Republic Services of Virginia, LLC Republic Services of Wisconsin GP, LLC Republic Services of Wisconsin LP, LLC Republic Services of Wisconsin, Limited Partnership Republic Services Real Estate Holding, Inc. Republic Services Risk Management, Inc. Republic Services Vasco Road, LLC Republic Silver State Disposal, Inc. Republic Transportation Services of Canada, Inc. Republic Wabash Company Republic Waste Services of Texas GP, Inc. Republic Waste Services of Texas LP, Inc. Republic Waste Services of Texas, Ltd. RI/Alameda Corp.
 
Richmond Sanitary Service, Inc. RITM, LLC RSG Cayman Group, Inc. Rubbish Control, LLC RWS Transport, L.P. Sandy Hollow Landfill Corp. Sanifill, Inc. Schofield Corporation of Orlando Solano Garbage Company South Trans, Inc. Southern Illinois Regional Landfill, Inc. Suburban Sanitation Services, Inc. {Shell} Sunrise Disposal, Inc. Taormina Industries, LLC Tay-Ban Corporation Terre Haute Recycling, Inc. The LETCO Group, Limited Partnership Tri-County Refuse Service, Inc, Triple G Landfills, Inc. United Refuse Co., Inc. Victory Environmental Services, Inc. Victory Waste Incorporated Wabash Valley Development Corporation Wabash Valley Landfill Company, Ltd. Water Recovery Systems, LLC West Contra Costa Energy Recovery Company West Contra Costa Sanitary Landfill, Inc. West County Landfill, Inc. West County Resource Recovery, Inc. Wilshire Disposal Services, Inc. Zakaroff Services
Part (b) 
Minority Interests
Nove Investments I, LLC Water Recovery Systems, LLC
 
SCHEDULE 7.02
Delaware Secretary of State
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Columbia Trailer Co. Inc. d/b/a Columbia Corporation, as secured party, filed under file number 10781653 on August 6, 2001.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and CIT Communications Finance Corporation, as secured party, filed under file number 30474315 on January 28, 2003.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Carter Machinery Co., Inc., as secured party, filed under file number 42154963 on August 2, 2004.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Toyota Motor Credit Corporation, as secured party, filed under file number 42198184 on August 5, 2004.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Carter Machinery Co., Inc., as secured party, filed under file number 42254516 on August 11, 2004.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Marlin Leasing Corp., as secured party, filed under file number 42624940 on September 20, 2004.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and CIT Communications Finance Corporation, as secured party, filed under file number 43031848 on October 27, 2004.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Rudd Equipment Company, as secured party, filed under file number 51086397 on April 4, 2005.
Florida  Secured Transaction Registry
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Forsythe/McArthur Associates, Inc., as secured party, filed under file number 200000072594 on March 27, 2000.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Great Southern Construction Equipment Co., as secured party, filed under file number 200100014031 on January 19, 2001.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Great Southern Construction Equipment Co., as secured party, filed under file number 200100027066 on February 5, 2001.
 
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Cedar Trail Landfill (a division of Republic Services, Inc.), as debtor and Ervin Leasing Co., as secured party, filed under file number 200100070424 on April 2, 2001.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Citicorp Vendor Finance, Inc., as secured party, filed under file number 200100074422 on April 5, 2001.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Marlin Leasing Corp., as secured party, filed under file number 200100148614 on July 6, 2001.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and Columbia Trailer Co., Inc. d/b/a Columbia Corporation, as secured party, filed under file number 200100194754 on September 7, 2001.
UCC-1 Financing Statement naming Republic Services, Inc., as debtor and CIT Communications Finance Corporation, as secured party, filed under file number 200304802466 on August 26, 2003.
 
SCHEDULE 7.06
 
SCHEDULE 10.02
BORROWER:
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:
 
 
SCHEDULE 10.06
The Administrative Agent will charge a processing and recordation fee (an "Assignment Fee") in the amount of $2,500 for each assignment; , , that in the event of two or more concurrent assignments to members of the same Assignee Group (which may be effected by a suballocation of an assigned amount among members of such Assignee Group) or two or more concurrent assignments by members of the same Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group), the Assignment Fee will be $2,500 plus the amount set forth below:
provided
however
 
EXHIBIT A
Date: ___________, _____
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2005 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
[Type of Committed Loan requested]
     The Committed Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.01
 
EXHIBIT B
Date: , 
                    
                    
                    
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Swing Line Lender
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2005 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Loan:
     1. On (a Business Day).
                    
                    
     2. In the amount of $.
                    
                    
     The Swing Line Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.04(a)
 
EXHIBIT C
_______________
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the "") hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2005 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Borrower
                    
                    
Lender
Agreement
     The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. ll payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
[Except as otherwise provided in
Section 2.04(f)
of the Agreement with respect to Swing Line Loans, a][A]
     This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
     THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
 
 
STATE OF _______________
COUNTY OF _______________
     Before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said County and State on this day of June, 2005 A.D., personally , known to be the of Republic Services, Inc. (the ""), who, being by me duly sworn, says he works at 110 S.E. Sixth Street, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33301, and that by authority duly given by, and as the act of, the Borrower, the foregoing Promissory Note dated as of June 28, 2005 to the Lender was signed by him as said on behalf of the Borrower.
                    
                    
                    
Borrower
                    
                    
     Witness my hand and official seal this day of June, 2005.
                    
(SEAL)
My commission Expires:
                    
                    
 
     The undersigned, being first duly sworn, deposes and says that:
     1. He is a of Bank of America, N.A. and works at .
                    
                    
                    
                    
     2. The Promissory Note of Republic Services, Inc. to which this Affidavit is attached was executed before him and delivered to him on behalf of the Lender in , on June , 2005.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
     This the day of June, 2005.
                    
STATE OF _______________
COUNTY OF _______________
     Before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said County and State on this day of June, 2005 A.D., personally appeared who before me affixed his signature to the above Affidavit.
                    
                    
                    
     Witness my hand and official seal this day of June, 2005.
                    
(SEAL)
My Commission Expires:
                    
                    
 
EXHIBIT D
Financial Statement Date: , 
                    
                    
                    
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 28, 2005 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the  of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                    
                    
                    
     1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(a)
     1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(b)
     2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
     3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
 
     [to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
     [the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
     4. The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in of the Agreement, and any representations and warranties of the Borrower that are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection with the Loan Documents, are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Compliance Certificate, the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of of the Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of of the Agreement, including the statements in connection with which this Compliance Certificate is delivered.
Article V
Section 5.11
Section 6.01
     5. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 2
     , the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
                    
                    
                    
 
For the Quarter/Year ended ___________________("")
Statement Date
A.
Subsection 7.01(a): Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
B.
Subsection 7.01(b): Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
 
EXHIBIT E
     This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
     For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations as a Lender under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, the Letters of Credit and the Swing Line Loans included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as, the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                    
                    
                    
     The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
     1. .
Representations and Warranties
     1.1. . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
     1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements of an Eligible Assignee under the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
Section 6.01
     2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal,
Payments
 
interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
     3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of Florida.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT F
     The matters contained in the following Sections of the Credit Agreement should be covered by the legal opinion:


