FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20070208161736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On February 2, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") of Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company") made an annual grant of restricted shares to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers of the Company as follows:
The restricted shares vest and become exercisable in four equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the date of grant subject to vesting acceleration based on the Company's achievement of annual performance goals established in connection with annual awards under the Company's Executive Incentive Plan.
On February 2, 2007, the Compensation Committee also granted the following restricted shares in lieu of a salary increase for 2007 to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers of the Company under the Company's 1998 Stock Incentive Plan as follows:
The restricted shares vest and become exercisable on January 1, 2008.
In addition, the Compensation Committee granted 20,000 restricted shares to James E. O'Connor for his valuable service to the Company. The restricted shares vest and become exercisable as to amount upon achievement of a 2007 Net Income goal approved by the Compensation Committee, with the percentage of such award being earned equal to the percentage of the Net Income goal achieved, up to a maximum of 100%. The restricted shares vest and become exercisable as to time on January 1, 2009 if Mr. O'Connor continues his employment with the Company through December 31, 2008.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


