FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20071126060213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)
November 26, 2007
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
As previously reported in a Form 8-K dated April 3, 2007, Republic Services of Ohio II, LLC ("Republic-Ohio"), an Ohio limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company"), was issued Final Findings and Orders ("F&Os") from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency ("OEPA"). The F&Os relate to environmental conditions attributed to a chemical reaction resulting from the disposal of aluminum production waste at the Countywide Recycling and Disposal Facility ("Countywide") in East Sparta, Ohio. The F&Os require Republic-Ohio to undertake certain actions to address the environmental conditions, including, without limitation, the following actions: (a) prohibiting leachate recirculation, (b) refraining from the disposal of solid waste in certain portions of the site, (c) updating engineering plans and specifications and providing further information regarding the integrity of various engineered components at the site, (d) performing additional data collection, (e) taking additional measures to address emissions, (f) expanding the gas collection and control system, (g) submitting a plan to the OEPA to suppress the chemical reaction and, following approval by the OEPA, implementing such plan. In addition, RepublicOhio has agreed with the OEPA to undertake certain other remedial actions including, without limitation, installing a "fire" break and removing liquids from gas extraction wells. Currently, Republic-Ohio is performing certain interim remedial actions required by the OEPA, but the OEPA has not approved Republic-Ohio's plan to suppress the chemical reaction.
Recently, the Company has learned that the Commissioner of the Stark County Health Department will recommend that the Health Board suspend Countywide's annual operating license.
The Company believes that RepublicOhio has diligently performed all actions required under the F&Os and that Countywide does not pose a threat to the environment. In addition, there are indications that the reaction is beginning to subside. As such, the Company believes that RepublicOhio satisfies the rules and regulations that govern the operating license at Countywide. The Company disagrees with the Commissioner's recommendation and will pursue all legal remedies available to ensure that Countywide remains a licensed facility. These remedies may be lengthy, but the Company believes that RepublicOhio will ultimately prevail in the event the Health Board acts upon the Commissioner's recommendation and suspends Countywide's annual operating license.
If RepublicOhio is not successful with such legal remedies, the Company will be required to close Countywide and record a non-cash charge of up to approximately $90 million for asset impairment and a charge of approximately $10 million for acceleration of future capping, closure and post-closure activities. In addition, the Company will forego future cash flows expected to be generated by Countywide and the Company's Cleveland and Akron marketplaces. These annual projected future operating cash flows are estimated to be approximately $15 million for 2008. At projected annual volumes, Countywide has an estimated remaining life of 20 years.
The Company intends to vigorously pursue financial contribution from third parties for its costs to comply with the F&Os, other required remedial actions and, if necessary, any costs related to the closing of Countywide.
Certain statements and information included herein constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance, or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied in or by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things:
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


