FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20080924171359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
     On September 18, 2008, Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a $1.75 billion revolving credit facility pursuant to a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, Barclays Bank PLC, BNP Paribas, and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, as Co-Documentation Agents, and other lenders named in the credit agreement (the "New Credit Facility"). The initial funding under the New Credit Facility is expected to occur upon the closing of the Company's proposed merger (the "Merger") of Allied Waste Industries, Inc. ("Allied"). Concurrently with, or as of the day after the closing of the Merger, substantially all of the subsidiaries of the Company will guarantee all obligations under the New Credit Facility.
     The initial extensions of credit under the New Credit Facility will be used to refinance extensions of credit under Allied's current senior credit facility, to pay fees and expenses in connection therewith, and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the proposed Merger. Thereafter, extensions of credit under the New Credit Facility will be used for working capital, capital expenditures, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes.
     The New Credit Facility will mature in September 2013. The New Credit Facility includes a feature that will allow the Company to increase availability under the New Credit Facility, at its option, by an aggregate amount of $500 million, through increased commitments from existing lenders or the addition of new lenders. At the Company's option, borrowings under the New Credit Facility bear interest at LIBOR-based rates or at prime-based rates. Available amounts subject to outstanding letters of credit, and outstanding principal, accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable under the Credit Facility may be accelerated upon an event of default, as such events are described in the Credit Agreement.
     The New Credit Facility contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, covenants requiring the Company to maintain certain financial ratios. The Company has the ability under the covenants in the New Credit Facility to pay dividends and to repurchase its common stock provided that it is in compliance with the covenants. This description of the New Credit Facility is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of such agreement filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this report, which is incorporated by reference herein.
     In addition, on September 18, 2008, the Company entered into Amendment No. 1 to its existing $1 billion credit facility (the "Existing Credit Facility"), by and among the Company, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and each of the lenders signatory thereto ("Amendment No. 1"). Amendment No. 1 does not extend the maturity date of the Existing Credit Facility, which matures in April, 2012, but will, as of the closing of the Merger, conform the terms of the Existing Credit Facility with those of the New Credit Facility. Under the terms of Amendment No. 1, concurrently with, or as of the day after the closing of the Merger, substantially all of the subsidiaries of the Company will guarantee all obligations under the Existing Credit Facility. This description of the Amendment No. 1 is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of such agreement filed as Exhibit 4.2 to this report, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
     On September 18, 2008, the Company entered into a $1.75 billion Credit Agreement; the information required by Item 2.03 of Form 8-K is included in Item 1.01 of this report.
     On September 18, 2008, the Company amended its $1 billion Credit Agreement the information required by Item 2.03 of Form 8-K is included in Item 1.01 of this report.
Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
     Certain statements and information included herein constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are identified by words such as "will" and "expected" and similar words. Any such forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include: regulatory and litigation matters and risks, legislative developments, changes in tax and other laws, the effect of changes in general economic conditions, the risk that a condition to funding of the new credit facility may not be satisfied, the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the merger is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated and other risks to consummation of the merger or the funding of the credit facility. Shareholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made herein are only made as of the date of this press release and the parties hereto undertake no obligation to publicly update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Additional Information and Where to Find It.
     On September 10, 2008, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-4 containing a Joint Preliminary Proxy Statement/Prospectus in connection with the proposed transaction with Allied, which is subject to review by the SEC. The definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus will be mailed to stockholders of the Company and Allied. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF THE COMPANY AND ALLIED ARE URGED TO READ THE DEFINITIVE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by the Company and Allied through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC can also be obtained by directing a request to Republic Services, Inc., 110 SE 6th Street, 28th Floor, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 33301 Attention: Investor Relations or by directing a request to Allied Waste Industries, Inc., 18500 North Allied Way, Phoenix, Arizona 85054, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
Participants in Solicitation.
     The Company, Allied and their respective directors and executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding the Company's directors and executive officers is available in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, which was filed with the SEC on February 21, 2008, and its proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 2, 2008, and information regarding Allied's directors and executive officers is available in Allied's Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2007, which was filed with the SEC on February 21, 2008 and its proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 10, 2008. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 24, 2008
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Version
 
 
Published CUSIP Number:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
EXHIBITS
     
Form of
 
     This CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of September 18, 2008, among , a Delaware corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and , as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer.
Agreement
REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
     The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
     "" means any Plan which was originally established and maintained by a Person other than the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate and which became, or hereafter becomes, a Plan as a result of an Acquisition by the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Acquired Plan
     "" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of all or substantially all of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary) provided that the Borrower or the Subsidiary is the surviving entity.
Acquisition
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
     "" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
Exhibit E-2
     "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
     "" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
 
     "" means Allied Waste Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Allied
     "" means the acquisition of Allied pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement.
Allied Acquisition
     "" means that certain Indenture dated as of April 20, 2004, between Allied and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, including all amendments thereto and all supplements thereto.
Allied Convertible Debt Indenture
     "" means, collectively, the Allied Convertible Debt Indenture, the AWNA Senior Notes Indenture and the Browning-Ferris Indenture.
Allied Indentures
     "" means the $400,000,000 accounts receivable securitization available pursuant to (i) the Receivables Sale Agreement dated as of March 7, 2003, among AWNA and the other originators from time to time party thereto, collectively as Originators, and Allied Receivables Funding Incorporated, as Buyer; and (ii) the Second Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement dated as of May 30, 2008, among Allied Receivables Funding Incorporated, as Borrower, AWNA, as Servicer, Atlantic Asset Securitization LLC, as a Lender, Calyon New York Branch, as Lender Group Agent, the Conduit Lenders from time to time party thereto, the Liquidity Banks from time to time party thereto, the Lender Group Agents from time to time party thereto, and Calyon New York Branch, as Agent.
Allied Securitization Program
     "" means each Subsidiary of Allied set forth on , as such Schedule may be updated following the Effective Date but on or before the Initial Funding Date with the approval of the Administrative Agent.
Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary
Schedule 1.01(a)
     "" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
     "" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Pricing Level for the highest Debt Rating of the Borrower, as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the debt rating of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt as determined by S&P and Moody's (each a "", and collectively, the "").
Debt Rating
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
     The applicable Debt Rating for determining the Pricing Level shall be the highest Debt Rating of the Borrower, , that (i) if the Debt Ratings differ by more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level higher than the Pricing Level of the lower Debt Rating shall apply; (ii) if the Borrower has only one Debt Rating, the Pricing Level of such Debt Rating shall apply; and (iii) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 4 shall apply.
provided
     Pricing Level 2 shall apply from the Effective Date until the Initial Funding Date. On the Initial Funding Date, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of delivery by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent of notice thereof pursuant to (or, if earlier, on the date that the Administrative Agent becomes aware of such public announcement) and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 4.02(b)(v)
Section 6.03
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., each in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
Arrangers
     "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit E-1
 
     "" means, with respect to any Person, on any date, (a) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease, and (b) in respect of any Securitization Transaction, the aggregate principal amount of obligations owed by such Person.
Attributable Indebtedness
     "" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
     "" means the period from the Effective Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to , and (d) May 15, 2009, if the Initial Funding Date has not occurred on or prior to such date.
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 8.02
     "" means Allied Waste North America, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
AWNA
     "" means that certain Indenture dated as of December 23, 1998, among AWNA, Allied, various Subsidiaries of Allied, and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, including all amendments thereto and all supplements thereto.
AWNA Senior Notes Indenture
     "" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
     "" means the Federal Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (11 U.S.C. 101, .).
Bankruptcy Code
et
seq
     "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
     "" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
     "" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
     "" means a Committed Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
 
     "" means Browning-Ferris Industries, LLC (f/k/a Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc.), a Delaware limited liability company.
Browning-Ferris
     "" means the Restated Indenture dated as of September 1, 1991, between Browning-Ferris and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly Chase Bank of Texas, N.A.), as successor trustee to First City, Texas-Houston, N.A., including all amendments thereto and supplements thereto.
Browning-Ferris Indenture
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
     "" means the lawful currency of Canada.
Canadian Dollars
     "" means a Letter of Credit which is denominated in Canadian Dollars.
Canadian L/C
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) any real or personal property by such Person that, in conformity with GAAP, is accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of such Person.
Capital Lease
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.03(g)
     "" means any agreement to provide cash management services, including treasury, depository, overdraft, credit or debit card, purchase card, electronic funds transfer and other cash management arrangements.
Cash Management Agreement
     "" means any Person that, (a) at the time it enters into a Cash Management Agreement, is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, or (b) at the time it (or its Affiliate) becomes a Lender, is a party to a Cash Management Agreement, in each case in its capacity as a party to such Cash Management Agreement.
Cash Management Bank
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
     "" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
     (a) (i) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) other than any Gates Entity (as hereinafter defined) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire whether
 
such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "option right")), directly or indirectly, of more than 25% of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower ("") on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right) or (ii) any one or more of Cascade Investment, L.L.C. (""), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust (the ""), any entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by Cascade or the Trust, or any Person directly or indirectly controlling Cascade, the Trust or any such entity, or any trustee of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") becomes the "beneficial owner", directly or indirectly, of Voting Securities of the Borrower sufficient to cause the aggregate "beneficial ownership" of Voting Securities of the Borrower by all of the Gates Entities to exceed 34% of the Voting Securities of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that the Gates Entities have the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
Voting Securities
Cascade
Trust
Gates Entities
     (b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
     "" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
 
     "" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
     "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
     "" means any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of a fiscal quarter.
Computation Period
     "" means, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for any Computation Period, the sum of, without duplication, (a) Consolidated Net Income during such Computation Period, plus (b) the following, in each case to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income during such Computation Period: (i) Consolidated Interest Expense; (ii) taxes on income; (iii) amortization; (iv) depreciation; (v) environmental remediation charges associated with environmental conditions at the CountryWide Recycling and Disposal Facility as more particularly described in the Borrower's Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 8, 2008 (not to exceed $69,000,000 in the aggregate during all Computation Periods); (vi) reasonably documented costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Allied Acquisition (not to exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate through the first anniversary of the consummation of the Allied Acquisition); and (vii) reasonably documented transition costs in connection with the Allied Acquisition (not to exceed $146,000,000 in the aggregate through the first anniversary of the consummation of the Allied Acquisition or $36,000,000 in the twelve (12) month period after such first anniversary); , that, to the extent that any Acquisition has been consummated during a Computation Period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be computed on a pro forma basis in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X of the SEC or in a manner otherwise approved by the Administrative Agent for the purpose of determining the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio.
Consolidated EBITDA
provided
     "" means in respect of any Computation Period the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such Computation Period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such Computation Period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
     "" means, with respect to any Computation Period, the gross interest expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including, (i) the amortization of debt discounts, (ii) the amortization of all fees payable in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness to the extent included in interest expense, (iii) the portion of any liabilities incurred in connection with Capital Leases allocable to interest expense and (iv) consolidated yield or discount accrued on the aggregate outstanding investment or claim held by purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) receivables of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with any Securitization Transaction (regardless of the accounting treatment of such Securitization Transaction).
Consolidated Interest Expense
     "" means, for any Computation Period, the gross revenues from operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, less all operating and non-operating expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including taxes on income but excluding all non-cash, nonrecurring charges and all extraordinary gains or losses.
Consolidated Net Income
 
     "" means the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries but excluding goodwill, franchises, licenses, patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and any other intangible assets.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
     "" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect liability of such Person, whether or not contingent, (a) with respect to any Indebtedness, lease, dividend, letter of credit or other obligation (the "primary obligations") of another Person (the "primary obligor"), including any obligation of such Person (i) to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire such primary obligations or any security therefor, (ii) to advance or provide funds for the payment or discharge of any such primary obligation, or to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency or any balance sheet item, level of income or financial condition of the primary obligor, (iii) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation, or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the holder of any such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof (each a ""); (b) with respect to any Surety Instrument issued for the account of such Person or as to which such Person is otherwise liable for reimbursement of drawings or payments; or (c) to purchase any materials, supplies or other property from, or to obtain the services of, another Person if the relevant contract or other related document or obligation requires that payment for such materials, supplies or other property, or for such services, shall be made regardless of whether delivery of such materials, supplies or other property is ever made or tendered, or such services are ever performed or tendered. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall (a) in the case of Guaranty Obligations, be deemed equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is made (subject to any limitation set forth in such guaranty) or, if not stated or if indeterminable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof, and (b) in the case of other Contingent Obligations, be equal to the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof.
Contingent Obligation
Guaranty Obligation
     "" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the
Debtor Relief Laws
 
United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate for Eurodollar Rate Loans 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
plus
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
     "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
     "" means, with respect to a Canadian Dollar amount, the amount of Dollars into which the Canadian Dollar amount would be converted, based on the applicable Exchange Rate.
Dollar Equivalent Amount
     "" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States (for the avoidance of doubt, excluding Puerto Rico).
Domestic Subsidiary
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with or .
Effective Date
Section 4.01
Section 4.01
10.01
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under .
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii))
     "" means all written claims, however asserted, by any Governmental Authority or other Person alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law, or for release or injury to the environment.
Environmental Claims
     "" means all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
 
     "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
     "" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a substantial cessation of operations which are treated as such a withdrawal; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Pension Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, the termination of a Multiemployer Plan under 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which might reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
     "" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or another commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then
Eurodollar Rate
BBA LIBOR
 
the "Eurodollar Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which Dollar deposits for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or another Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for Dollar deposits at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
     "" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
     "" means the Spot Rate of Exchange as of two Business Days preceding the Valuation Date.
Exchange Rate
     "" means each Subsidiary set forth on and each other Subsidiary that is approved from time to time as an Excluded Subsidiary by the Administrative Agent.
Excluded Subsidiary
Schedule 1.01(b)
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuers or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
     "" means the revolving credit facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement dated as of April 26, 2007, among the Borrower, Bank of America, as Administrative Agent, and the lenders party thereto, as amended.
Existing Credit Facility
     "" means those standby letters of credit outstanding on the Initial Funding Date and set forth on attached hereto, as such Schedule may be updated following the Effective Date with the approval of the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) to reflect standby letters of
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 2.03
 
credit issued after the Effective Date and before the Initial Funding Date at the request of the Borrower, Allied or any of their respective Subsidiaries by any institution that is or subsequently becomes an L/C Issuer hereunder.
     "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
     "" means (i) the letter agreement, dated July 22, 2008, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, and (ii) the letter agreement, dated July 22, 2008, between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
     "" means any Cash Management Agreement that is entered into by and between any Loan Party and any Cash Management Bank.
Guaranteed Cash Management Agreement
 
     "" means any Swap Contract permitted under that is entered into by and between any Loan Party and any Hedge Bank.
Guaranteed Hedge Agreement
Article VII
     "" means, collectively, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the L/C Issuers, the Hedge Banks, the Cash Management Banks and each co-agent or sub-agent appointed by the Administrative Agent from time to time pursuant to .
Guaranteed Parties
Section 9.05
     "" means, collectively, each Material Subsidiary, including (effective as of the day after the Initial Funding Date) Allied and each of its Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries.
Guarantors
     "" means the Guaranty made by the Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Guaranteed Parties, substantially in the form of , as supplemented from time to time by the execution and delivery of a Guaranty Joinder Agreement pursuant to .
Guaranty
Exhibit F
Section 6.13
     "" means each Guaranty Joinder Agreement, substantially in the form thereof attached to the Guaranty, executed and delivered by a Guarantor to the Administrative Agent pursuant to .
Guaranty Joinder Agreement
Section 6.13
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of Contingent Obligation.
Guaranty Obligation
     "" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
     "" means any Person that (a) at the time it enters into a Swap Contract permitted under , is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, or (b) at the time it (or its Affiliate) becomes a Lender, is a party to a Swap Contract, in each case in its capacity as a party to such Swap Contract.
Hedge Bank
Article VII
     "" means, for any Person, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money; (b) all obligations issued, undertaken or assumed by such Person as the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables entered into in the ordinary course of business on ordinary terms); (c) all reimbursement or payment obligations of such Person with respect to Surety Instruments; (d) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments; (e) all indebtedness of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, or incurred as financing, in either case with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (f) all obligations of such Person with respect to Capital Leases; (g) Attributable Indebtedness; (h) all indebtedness of the types referred to in through above secured by (or for which the holder of such indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien upon or in property (including accounts and contracts rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become
Indebtedness
clauses (a)
(g)
 
liable for the payment of such Indebtedness, provided that the amount of any such Indebtedness shall be deemed to be the lesser of the face principal amount thereof and the fair market value of the property subject to such Lien; and (i) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person in respect of Indebtedness of the types described above; that Indebtedness shall not include obligations arising out of the endorsement of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. For all purposes of this Agreement, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include all Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer (other than any such Indebtedness which is expressly non-recourse to such Person).
provided
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with or .
Initial Funding Date
Section 4.02
Section 4.02
10.01
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any change, event or occurrence that has a material adverse effect on the assets and liabilities (taken as a whole), financial condition or business of such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; , however, that none of the following, or any change, event or occurrence resulting or arising from the following, shall constitute, or shall be considered in determining whether there has occurred, an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect: (i) changes in conditions in the U.S. or global economy or capital or financial markets generally, including changes in interest or exchange rates ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (ii) changes in general legal, tax, regulatory, political or business conditions in the jurisdictions in which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries operates ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (iii) general market or economic conditions in the industry in which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries operates ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (iv) actions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (but, excluding from the definition of the Merger Agreement for the purposes of this definition, any amendments or waivers of any terms or conditions thereof); (v) the negotiation, execution, announcement, pendency or performance of the Merger Agreement or the transactions contemplated thereby, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or any public communications by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries regarding the Merger Agreement or the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including, in any such case, the impact thereof on relationships, contractual or otherwise, with lenders, investors, venture partners or employees ( that a negative impact on relationships with customers or vendors, taken as a whole, may be taken into account in determining whether an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred); (vi) changes after the date of the Merger Agreement in applicable United States or foreign, federal, state or
Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect
provided
provided
provided
provided
provided
 
local law or interpretations thereof ( that such changes do not affect such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (vii) changes in GAAP or the interpretation thereof; (viii) any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with the Merger Agreement or at the request or with the consent of the Borrower (in the case of Allied) or Allied (in the case of the Borrower) (it being agreed that the Borrower will not request that Allied or any Subsidiary take any action prohibited by any of clauses (i) through (vi) of of the Merger Agreement without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent); (ix) any failure by such Person to meet any projections, guidance, estimates, forecasts or milestones or financial or operating predictions for or during any period ending (or for which results are released) on or after the date of the Merger Agreement (it being agreed that the facts and circumstances giving rise to such failure may be taken into account in determining whether an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred); (x) any action, arbitration, proceeding, litigation or suit arising from or relating to the Allied Acquisition or the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement; (xi) a decline in the price of such Person's common stock (it being agreed that the facts and circumstances giving rise to such decline may be taken into account in determining whether an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred); (xii) labor conditions in the industry in which such Person and its Subsidiaries operate ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); and (xiii) any natural disaster or other acts of God, acts of war, armed hostilities, sabotage or terrorism, or any escalation or worsening of any such acts of war, armed hostilities, sabotage or terrorism threatened or underway as of the date of the Merger Agreement ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); and , in the event any such change, event or occurrence identified in clause (i), (ii), (iii), (vi), (xii) or (xiii) does adversely affect such Person or its Subsidiaries in a materially disproportionate manner (after giving effect to the impact of such change, event or occurrence at the level of impact generally experienced by other companies operating in the same industry), such change, event or occurrence shall be considered in determining whether an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred only to the extent of the disproportionate impact on such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
provided
Section 6.01(a)
provided
provided
provided
     "" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any case, action or proceeding with respect to such Person before any court or other Governmental Authority relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, dissolution, winding-up or relief of debtors or (b) any general assignment for the benefit of creditors, composition, marshalling of assets for creditors, or other similar arrangement in respect of its creditors generally or any substantial portion of its creditors; in each case undertaken under any U.S. Federal, state or foreign law, including the Bankruptcy Code.
Insolvency Proceeding
     "" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 
     "" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one week (if offered by all Lenders) or one, two, three or six months (or nine or twelve months, if offered by all Lenders) thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
     (i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
     (ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
     (iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the scheduled Maturity Date.
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
     "" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by an L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of such L/C Issuer and relating to any such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
     "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial determinations, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all administrative orders, licenses and authorizations of any Governmental Authority applicable to Borrower and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, applicable to Borrower, any Lender or the Administrative Agent.
Laws
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
L/C Advance
     "" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof (including any reinstatement pursuant to ).
L/C Credit Extension
Section 2.03(b)(iv)
 
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of one or more Letters of Credit hereunder, together with (i) any replacement letter of credit issuer arising under and (ii) any other Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender which has agreed in writing to become an "L/C Issuer" hereunder.
L/C Issuer
Section 9.06
     "" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate of the Dollar amount and, as applicable, the Dollar Equivalent Amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of the Dollar amount and, as applicable, the Dollar Equivalent Amount of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.06
outstanding
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
     "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
     "" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder (including any Canadian L/C issued pursuant to ) and shall include each Existing Letter of Credit.
Letter of Credit
Section 2.03(a)(iv)
     "" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the applicable L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
     "" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.03(i)
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), or other preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, the interest of a lessor under a Capital Lease, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, but not including the interest of a lessor under an operating lease).
Lien
     "" means an extension of credit in Dollars by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
     "" means this Agreement, each Note, the Guaranty (including any Guaranty Joinder Agreement), each Issuer Document and the Fee Letters.
Loan Documents
 
     "" means, collectively, the Borrower and each Guarantor; that, with respect to the Specified Credit Agreement Representations on the Initial Funding Date and and , (i) Allied and each of its Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be Loan Parties whether or not then Guarantors and (ii) all representations that refer to any Loan Document to which any Loan Party is a party shall include the execution and delivery of a Guaranty Joinder Agreement in escrow by Allied and each of its Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries on the Initial Funding Date and the effectiveness thereof on the day after the Initial Funding Date.
Loan Parties
provided
Sections 4.02
4.03
     "" means "margin stock" as such term is defined in Regulation T, U or X of the FRB.
Margin Stock
     "" means a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, assets or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means Indebtedness, Attributable Indebtedness, Contingent Obligations and obligations under Swap Contracts of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Securitization Transaction, in an aggregate amount (or, in the case of a Swap Contract, having a Swap Termination Value), for all such Indebtedness, Attributable Indebtedness, Contingent Obligations, obligations under Swap Contracts and obligations in respect of Securitization Transactions, but without duplication, equal to $100,000,000 or more.
Material Financial Obligation
     "" means, as of any date of determination (and, as of the Initial Funding Date, giving effect to the Allied Acquisition), each direct or indirect Domestic Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) that (a) has total assets (including Equity Interests in other Subsidiaries) equal to or greater than 5% of consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated as of the end of the most recent fiscal period for which financial statements are available), or has revenues equal to or greater than 5% of the consolidated total revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated for the most recent four-fiscal quarter period for which financial statements are available), (b) is designated by the Borrower as a Material Subsidiary, or (c) guarantees any Senior Note Indebtedness or Indebtedness issued pursuant to the Allied Convertible Debt Indenture. The Borrower shall from time to time promptly (and in any event within 30 days after the end of each fiscal period for which financial statements are available) designate one or more of its Subsidiaries as Material Subsidiaries to the extent necessary to cause such term to include Subsidiaries of the Borrower that, together with the Borrower and each other Material Subsidiary, have assets equal to not less than 98% of consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated as of the end of the most recent fiscal period for which financial statements are available but excluding the assets of each Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, each Securitization Subsidiary and any Republic Insurance Entity from such calculation) and revenues of not less than 98% of the consolidated total revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated for the most recent four-fiscal quarter period for which financial statements are available but excluding the revenues of each Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, each Securitization Subsidiary and any Republic Insurance Entity from such calculation). For the avoidance of doubt, the 98% calculation in the immediately preceding sentence shall include the Borrower's assets and revenues only to the extent they do
Material Subsidiary
 
not duplicate the assets and revenues of its Subsidiaries and, without limitation of the foregoing, the Borrower's Equity Interests in its Subsidiaries shall not be included in valuing the assets of the Borrower.
     "" means September 18, 2013.
Maturity Date
     "" means that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 22, 2008, among the Borrower, RS Merger Wedge, Inc. and Allied (including all schedules and exhibits thereto).
Merger Agreement
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means a "multiemployer plan", within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit C
     "" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, Letter of Credit, Guaranteed Cash Management Agreement or Guaranteed Hedge Agreement, in each case whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
     "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
     "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
     "" means (i) with respect to Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the
Outstanding Amount
 
case may be, occurring on such date; and (ii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions under ERISA.
PBGC
     "" means a pension plan (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), subject to Title IV of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Pension Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Permitted Liens
Section 7.02
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means an employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability, and includes any Pension Plan.
Plan
     "" means, with respect to any Acquired Plan, the first date on which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability with respect to such Acquired Plan.
Plan Acquisition Date
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
     "" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed in the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
     "" has the meaning specified in the Merger Agreement.
Regulatory Divestiture
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, counsel and attorneys-in-fact of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means, any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA or the regulations thereunder, other than any such event for which the 30-day notice requirement under ERISA has been waived in regulations issued by the PBGC.
Reportable Event
 
     "" means that certain Indenture dated as of March 30, 2001 between the Borrower and The Bank of New York (now known as The Bank of New York Mellon), as Trustee, including all amendments thereto and supplements thereto.
Republic Indenture
     "" means Bom Ambiente, Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted company, Republic Services Risk Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation, RSG Cayman Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and each other Subsidiary formed in connection with any captive insurance program that, following the Effective Date, is approved from time to time as a Republic Insurance Entity by the Administrative Agent.
Republic Insurance Entity
     "" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
     "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
     "" means, as to any Person, any law (statutory or common), treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or of a Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Requirement of Law
     "" means the chief executive officer, the president or any vice president of a Loan Party, or any other officer having substantially the same authority and responsibility; or, with respect to financial matters, the chief financial officer, the vice president-finance, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer of a Loan Party, or any other officer having substantially the same authority and responsibility; or, with respect to corporate offices and authority, the secretary or assistant secretary of a Loan Party or any other officer having the same authority and responsibility. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
     "" means that amount of cash of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries held by or pledged to trustees for industrial revenue bonds and tax-exempt financings that is included on the balance sheet of the Borrower, at any date of determination, in the line item "Restricted Cash."
Restricted Cash
 
     "" means, as to any Person, any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of such Person, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to such Person's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
     "" means, collectively, Browning-Ferris Industries Energy Systems of Boston, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Services Group, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Trans River (LP), Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Energy Systems of Plymouth, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Europe, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries of Asia Pacific, Inc., and Consolidated Processing, Inc.
RMI Subsidiaries
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" means the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes Oxley
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sarbanes Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Securities Laws
     "" means (a) after the Initial Funding Date, Allied Receivables Funding Incorporated or (b) any special purpose, bankruptcy-remote Subsidiary of the Borrower that purchases accounts receivable, lease receivables or other payment obligations generated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with any extension, renewal or refinancing of the Allied Securitization Program.
Securitization Subsidiary
     "" means any sale, assignment or other transfer by the Borrower or any Subsidiary (including, after the Initial Funding Date, the Allied Securitization Program and any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof) of accounts receivable, lease receivables or other payment obligations owing to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any interest in any of the foregoing, together in each case with any collections and other proceeds thereof, any collection or deposit accounts related thereto, and any collateral, guaranties or other property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting, securing or otherwise relating to any such receivables or other payment obligations.
Securitization Transaction
     "" means any Indebtedness outstanding under any of the Senior Note Indentures.
Senior Note Indebtedness
     "" means, collectively, the Republic Indenture, the AWNA Senior Notes Indenture and the Browning-Ferris Indenture.
Senior Note Indentures
 
     "" means, when used with respect to any Person, that at the time of determination:
Solvent
     (a) the fair value of its assets (both at fair valuation and at present fair saleable value on an orderly basis) is in excess of the total amount of its liabilities, including Contingent Obligations; and
     (b) it is then able and expects to be able to pay its debts as they mature; and
     (c) it has capital sufficient to carry on its business as conducted and as proposed to be conducted.
     "" means the representations and warranties set forth in , (limited, in the case of material Contractual Obligations in clause (b), to the Allied Indentures and the Allied Securitization Program), , , , and .
Specified Credit Agreement Representations
Sections 5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.08
5.13
5.18
     "" means the representations and warranties made by Allied to the Borrower in the Merger Agreement, in each case without giving effect to any consent or waiver by any party to the Merger Agreement to any exception thereto or deviation therefrom which is material to the interests of the Lenders (as determined by the Arrangers in their sole discretion), but only to the extent that the Borrower has the right to terminate its obligations (other than indemnity and other obligations expressed to survive any termination of the Merger Agreement) under the Merger Agreement or refuse to close the Allied Acquisition as a result of a breach of such representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement.
Specified Merger Agreement Representations
     "" means, in determining the Dollar Equivalent Amount of a specified Canadian Dollar amount as of any date, the spot exchange rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with its usual procedures for the purchase by the Administrative Agent of Dollars with Canadian Dollars at approximately 10:00 A.M. on the Business Day that is two (2) Business Days prior to such date.
Spot Rate of Exchange
     "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
     "" means all letters of credit (including standby and commercial), banker's acceptances, bank guaranties, shipside bonds, surety bonds and similar instruments.
Surety Instruments
     "" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index
Swap Contract
 
transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Master Agreement
     "" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
     "" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.04
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.04(a)
     "" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.04(b)
Exhibit B
     "" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $100,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
     "" means J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. in its capacity as syndication agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor syndication agent.
Syndication Agent
     "" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
 
     "" means, at any time, the sum (determined on a consolidated basis and without duplication) of all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, excluding contingent obligations with respect to Surety Instruments (other than any letter of credit issued for the account of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to support Indebtedness of a Person other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary).
Total Debt
     "" means in respect of any Computation Period the ratio of (a) Total Debt Restricted Cash, as at the end of such Computation Period, to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such Computation Period.
Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
minus
     "" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
     "" means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
     "" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
     "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.03(c)(i)
     "" means any of (i) the date of any Credit Extension, (ii) the date of any L/C Borrowing, and (iii) any other date when there are outstanding Canadian L/Cs that the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent Amount of Canadian L/Cs.
Valuation Date
     "" means any Subsidiary in which (other than directors' qualifying shares required by law) 100% of the capital stock, membership interests or other Equity Interests of each class having ordinary voting power, and 100% of the capital stock, membership interests or other Equity Interests of every other class, in each case, at the time as of which any determination is being made, is owned, beneficially and of record, by the Borrower, or by one or more of the other Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or both.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
     . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
     (a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or
include
includes
including
will
shall
 
modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
     (b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
     (c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
     . (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein and without giving effect to any change in GAAP which would require the Borrower to "mark-for-market" its obligations under Swap Contracts (unless (i) the Borrower and the Required Lenders agree to give effect to such changes or (ii) the Borrower has recognized a gain or loss as a result of such Swap Contract).
1.03 Accounting Terms
Generally
except
     (b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
     . Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the
1.04 Rounding
 
other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
     . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.05 Times of Day
     . Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
1.06 Letter of Credit Amounts
provided
however
     . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day on or after the Initial Funding Date and during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01 Committed Loans
Committed Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01.
     .
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
     (a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.03(c)
2.04(c)
 
$1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
     (b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 3:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.03
Section 4.02
provided
however
first
second
     (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
 
     (e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, unless the Administrative Agent otherwise consents, there shall not be more than fifteen Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
     .
2.03 Letters of Credit
     (a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
     (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) each L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Initial Funding Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings properly drawn under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (y) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments and (z) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed. All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto on the Initial Funding Date, and from and after the Initial Funding Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof. The Borrower agrees to promptly notify the Administrative Agent of the designation of any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender as an L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03
provided
plus
plus
     (ii) No L/C Issuer shall issue any Letter of Credit, if:
     (A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than eighteen months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
Section 2.03(b)(iii)
     (B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
 
     (iii) No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
     (A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to such L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that such L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which such L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Initial Funding Date, or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Initial Funding Date and which such L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it (it being understood that the applicable L/C Issuer shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any of the foregoing events or circumstances);
     (B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more applicable policies of such L/C Issuer;
     (C) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars, or, only in the case of Bank of America as L/C Issuer, in a currency other than Dollars or Canadian Dollars; or
     (D) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder.
     (iv) On the terms and conditions set forth herein any L/C Issuer may issue upon request and for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) a standby Canadian L/C. For purposes of determining L/C Obligations, any Canadian L/C shall be recorded in the Administrative Agent's account in Dollars based on the Dollar Equivalent Amount on the date of issuance of such Canadian L/C; , , that the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent Amount of any Canadian L/C on the Valuation Date for the purpose of determining L/C Obligations. Any draw on a Canadian L/C shall be repaid in Canadian Dollars in an amount equal to the amount of the draw in Canadian Dollars. If at any time there is a drawing under a Canadian L/C and the Borrower shall not promptly reimburse such drawing as provided in , the Borrower shall be obligated to immediately repay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders an amount in Dollars equal to the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the Canadian Dollars paid by the applicable L/C Issuer to the beneficiary of such Canadian L/C on the date of such drawing.
provided
however
Section 2.3(c)
     (v) No L/C Issuer shall amend any Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
 
     (vi) No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
     (vii) Each L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and each L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included each L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to each L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
     (b) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit; Auto-Reinstatement Letters of Credit
     (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the applicable L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (or through such other procedures as may otherwise be approved by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent, including electronic communications in accordance with ). Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as such L/C Issuer may agree in its sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (G) the purpose and nature of the requested Letter of Credit; and (H) such other matters as the applicable L/C Issuer may reasonably require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the applicable L/C Issuer may reasonably require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as such L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
subsection 10.02(b)
 
     (ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, such L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the applicable L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with such L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the applicable L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
     (iii) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit such L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that such L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) such L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of clause (ii) or (iii) of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
Section 2.03(a)
Section 4.03
     (iv) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, an L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that permits the automatic reinstatement of all or a portion of the stated amount thereof after any drawing thereunder (each, an ""). Unless otherwise directed by such L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a
Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit
 
specific request to such L/C Issuer to permit such reinstatement. Once an Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit has been issued, except as provided in the following sentence, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to reinstate all or a portion of the stated amount thereof in accordance with the provisions of such Letter of Credit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit permits an L/C Issuer to decline to reinstate all or any portion of the stated amount thereof after a drawing thereunder by giving notice of such non-reinstatement within a specified number of days after such drawing (the ""), such L/C Issuer shall not permit such reinstatement if it has received a notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Reinstatement Deadline (A) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such reinstatement or (B) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied or that such reinstatement would violate the proviso to the first sentence of and, in each case, directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such reinstatement.
Non-Reinstatement Deadline
Section 4.03
Section 2.03(a)(i)
     (v) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the applicable L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
     (c) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
     (i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof. Not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing; , that if any payment is made by an L/C Issuer after 1:00 p.m. on an Honor Date, such reimbursement shall occur not later than 1:00 p.m. on the first Business Day occurring after such Honor Date. If the Borrower fails to so reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in Dollars to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount (or, in the case of any Unreimbursed Amount in respect of any Canadian L/C, in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such Unreimbursed Amount), without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice). Any notice given by the applicable L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Honor Date
provided
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.03
Section 2.03(c)(i)
provided
 
     (ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer at the Administrative Agent's Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 3:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the applicable L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
     (iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.03
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
Section 2.03
     (iv) Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)
     (v) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Committed Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by such L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.03(c)
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 4.03
     (vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , such L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by such L/C Issuer in accordance with banking
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
 
industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the applicable L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after the applicable L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of such L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's L/C Advance was outstanding) in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.03(c)
     (ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by such L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 10.05
     (e) . The obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
     (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
     (ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the applicable L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
     (iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the
 
transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
     (iv) any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
     (v) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower.
     The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will promptly notify the applicable L/C Issuer. The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the applicable L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
     (f) . Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the applicable L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of such L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against such L/C Issuer, and such L/C Issuer may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves were caused by such L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or such L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing,
Role of L/C Issuer
provided
however
Section 2.03(e)
provided
however
 
the applicable L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and such L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
     (g) . Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (i) if the applicable L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations. and set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this , and , "" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the applicable L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuers and the Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
Cash Collateral
Sections 2.05
8.02(c)
Section 2.03
Section 2.05
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collateralize
     (h) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), the rules of the ISP shall apply to each Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
     (i) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit, or in the case of a Canadian L/C the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such daily amount available to be drawn under such Canadian L/C. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears and (ii) due and payable on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
times
Section 1.06
 
     (j) . The Borrower shall pay directly to each L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer in an amount to be determined by the Borrower and the applicable L/C Issuer. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable in full by the Borrower to the applicable L/C Issuers, with respect to each Letter of Credit, quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, unless otherwise agreed with the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall pay directly to each L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of such L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 1.06
     (k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
     (l) . For so long as any Letter of Credit issued by an L/C Issuer other than Bank of America is outstanding, such L/C Issuer shall deliver to the Administrative Agent on the last Business Day of each calendar month, and on each date that an L/C Credit Extension occurs with respect to any such Letter of Credit, a report in the form of hereto, appropriately completed with the information for every outstanding Letter of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer. The Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Lenders on a monthly basis a report of all outstanding Letters of Credit.
Reporting of Letter of Credit Information
Exhibit H
     .
2.04 Swing Line Loans
     (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day on or after the Initial Funding Date and during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be deemed a Base Rate Loan notwithstanding anything to the contrary in regarding the interest rate
The Swing Line
Section 2.04
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.04
Section 2.05
Section 2.04
Section 2.08(a)(iii)
 
applicable to such Swing Line Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
     (b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 3:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $1,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 3:30 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the first proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 4:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower at its office by crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Swing Line Lender in immediately available funds.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.04(a)
Article IV
     (c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
     (i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 3:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the
Section 2.02
Section 4.03
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
 
Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
     (ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
     (iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
     (iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.03
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
     (ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender
 
under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
     (e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.04
     (f) . The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
     .
2.05 Prepayments
     (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding; that if any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans pursuant to results in the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Loans not being an integral multiple of $100,000, then the next prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in an amount that will cause the aggregate principal amount of all Base Rate Loans to be in an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100,000. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be repaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
provided
provided
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 3.05
     (b) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date of the
provided
 
prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
     (c) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.
provided
however
Section 2.05(c)
     . The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction (except that if no Loans are outstanding hereunder and no Letters of Credit are issued and outstanding hereunder or the effectiveness of a new credit facility for the Borrower is conditioned on the termination of this Agreement, any notice terminating the Aggregate Commitments may be received on the date of termination), (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments; that the Borrower may terminate the Aggregate Commitments if all Loans have been paid in full, the Borrower has Cash Collateralized, or provided other support acceptable to the applicable L/C Issuer(s) for, all outstanding Letters of Credit, and there are no outstanding L/C Borrowings. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.06 Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
provided
     .
2.07 Repayment of Loans
     (a) The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans outstanding on such date.
     (b) The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the fourth Business Day following the giving of notice by the Swing Line Lender to the Borrower and (ii) the Maturity Date.
     .
2.08 Interest
     (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate
 
per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate or such other rate as may be agreed to from time to time by the Borrower and the Swing Line Lender; that after any purchase by the Lenders of a participation in any Swing Line Loan, the rate of interest on such Swing Line Loan shall not be less than the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
plus
plus
plus
provided
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (after giving affect to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
     . In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
2.09 Fees
Section 2.03
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or
Facility Fee
times
 
more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Effective Date, and on the Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Article IV
     (b) .
Other Fees
     (i) The Borrower shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
     (ii) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
     . All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.10 Computation of Interest and Fees
provided
Section 2.12(a)
     .
2.11 Evidence of Debt
     (a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse
 
thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     (b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
     .
2.12 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
     (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 3:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the applicable Borrowing. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
     (ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or any L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to it to the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
     A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
     (c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
     (d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
     (e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any
Funding Source
 
Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
     . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.13 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
     (i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
     The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
     .
2.14 Increase in Commitments
     (a) . Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $500,000,000; that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $100,000,000, (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of five such requests, (iii) any such increased or additional Commitment shall be obtained from one or more existing Lenders (it being understood that no existing Lender shall be required to increase its Commitment) and/or other Persons that qualify as Eligible Assignees and (iv) no increase in the Aggregate Commitments shall increase the Swing Line Sublimit.
Request for Increase
provided
 
     (b) . Any Person that is to become a Lender pursuant to this shall execute and deliver a joinder agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Additional Lenders
Section 2.14
     (c) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Increase Effective Date and the Commitments and Applicable Percentages of the Lenders after giving effect thereto.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
     (d) . As a condition precedent to such increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Loan Parties approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsection (a) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clause (a) of , and (B) no Default exists. The Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Article V
Section 2.14
Section 5.11
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
     (e) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
10.01
     .
3.01 Taxes
     (a) (i) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Taxes. If, however, applicable Laws require the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to withhold or deduct any Tax, such Tax shall be withheld or deducted in accordance with such Laws as determined by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to subsection (e) below.
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
     (ii) If the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be required by the Code to withhold or deduct any Taxes, including both United States Federal backup withholding and withholding taxes, from any payment, then (A) the Administrative
 
Agent shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by the Administrative Agent to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to subsection (e) below, (B) the Administrative Agent shall timely pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with the Code, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, the sum payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, the applicable Lender or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction been made.
     (b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
     (c) .
Tax Indemnifications
     (i) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, the Borrower shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) withheld or deducted by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent or paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The Borrower shall also, and does hereby indemnify the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefore, for any amount which a Lender or an L/C Issuer for any reason fails to pay indefeasibly to the Administrative Agent as required by clause (ii) of this subsection. A certificate as to the amount of any such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or an L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or an L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
     (ii) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, each Lender and each L/C Issuer shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefore, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Borrower or the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against the Borrower or the Administrative Agent by any Governmental Authority as a result of the failure by such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (e). Each Lender and each L/C Issuer
 
hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due the Administrative Agent under this clause (ii). The agreements in this clause (ii) shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender or an L/C Issuer, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
     (d) . Upon request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by the Borrower or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Authority as provided in this , the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by Laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
Evidence of Payments
Section 3.01
     (e) .
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
     (i) Each Lender and each L/C Issuer shall deliver to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable Laws or when reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Laws or by the taxing authorities of any jurisdiction and such other reasonably requested information as will permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine (A) whether or not payments made hereunder or under any other Loan Document are subject to Taxes, (B) if applicable, the required rate of withholding or deduction, and (C) such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable Taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender or such L/C Issuer by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's status for withholding tax purposes in the applicable jurisdiction.
     (ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States:
     (A) Any Lender or any L/C Issuer that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable Laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements; and
     (B) Each Foreign Lender, and each L/C Issuer that is a Foreign Lender, that is entitled under the Code or any applicable treaty to an exemption from or
 
reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender or such L/C Issuer becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender or such L/C Issuer is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (I) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
     (II) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
     (III) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY and all required supporting documentation;
     (IV) in the case of a Foreign Lender or L/C Issuer claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender or such L/C Issuer is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
     (V) executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable Laws as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable Laws to permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made;
     (iii) Each Lender and each L/C Issuer shall promptly (A) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any jurisdiction that the Borrower or the Administrative Agent make any withholding or deduction for Taxes from amounts payable to such Lender or such L/C Issuer.
     (f) . Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender or an L/C Issuer, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender or any L/C Issuer, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from the funds paid for the account of such Lender or such
Treatment of Certain Refunds
 
L/C Issuer, as the case may be. If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person or to file for, or otherwise pursue on behalf of, the Borrower any refund of Taxes.
provided
     (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , (i) if any Lender fails to notify the Borrower of any event or circumstance which will entitle such Lender to compensation pursuant to this within 60 days after such Lender obtains knowledge of such event or circumstance, then such Lender shall not be entitled to compensation from the Borrower for any amount arising prior to the date which is 60 days before the date on which such Lender notifies the Borrower of such event or circumstance; and (ii) the Borrower shall not be required to pay an additional amount to, or to indemnify, any Lender pursuant to this to the extent that (x) the obligation to withhold or pay such amount existed on the Initial Date (as defined below) or (y) the obligation to withhold or pay such amount would not have arisen but for the failure of such Lender to comply with the provisions of subsection (e) above. For purposes of clause (ii) of the foregoing sentence "Initial Date" means (A) in the case of any Lender that is a signatory hereto, the date of this Agreement, (B) in the case of any Person which subsequently becomes a Lender hereunder, the date of the applicable Assignment and Assumption, and (C) in the case of any Participant, the date on which it becomes a Participant; , that the foregoing limitation shall not impair any availability of the indemnity provision above to the Administrative Agent or any L/C Issuer.
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
provided
     . If any Lender reasonably determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the Borrower's option, prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of
3.02 Illegality
 
such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
     . If for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof, (a) the Required Lenders or the Administrative Agent determines that (i) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (ii) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (b) the Administrative Agent determines that the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
     .
3.04 Increased Costs
     (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by ) or any L/C Issuer;
Section 3.04(e)
     (ii) subject any Lender or any L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or such L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer); or
Section 3.01
     (iii) impose on any Lender or any L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or such L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or
 
such L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount), then, upon request of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) . If any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or such L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitment of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
     (c) . A certificate of a Lender or such L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section, together with a brief explanation for the increased costs and the basis for the calculation thereof, and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
     (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or such L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than 60 days prior to the date that such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 60-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
     (e) . The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as "Eurocurrency liabilities"), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Loan equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
provided
 
additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
     . Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
     (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay or borrow any Loan or continue or convert any Eurodollar Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
     (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
     For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
     .
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
     (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
     (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
 
Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
     . All obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
3.07 Survival
Article III
     . The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions to Effectiveness of this Agreement
     (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Effective Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Effective Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
     (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
     (ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note; and
     (iii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
     (b) All accrued fees and expenses of the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders required to be paid on or before the Effective Date (including all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent invoiced on or before such date) shall have been paid.
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required hereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Effective Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
     . The obligation of each L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to Initial Funding
     (a) The Effective Date shall have occurred.
 
     (b) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Initial Funding Date unless otherwise noted below (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Initial Funding Date):
     (i) (A) counterparts of the Guaranty duly executed by each Material Subsidiary of the Borrower (before giving effect to the Allied Acquisition), sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, and (B) a Guaranty Joinder Agreement, duly executed by Allied and each of its Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries (it being understood and agreed that such Guaranty Joinder Agreement is being delivered in escrow with irrevocable authorization to release such Guaranty Joinder Agreement to the Administrative Agent on the day after the Initial Funding Date and that such Guaranty Joinder Agreement shall be effective on the day after the Initial Funding Date);
     (ii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
     (iii) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each Loan Party is validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization or formation;
     (iv) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party, and the validity against such Loan Party, of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
     (v) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied (including a certification as to the representations and warranties referenced therein), (B) that there has been no event, occurrence or development (including as a result of the continuation of any existing condition) since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect, with respect to the Borrower or Allied, (C) as to the current Debt Ratings, (D) the accuracy of and attaching a proposed updated for approval by the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably conditioned, withheld or delayed), (E) the accuracy of and attaching a proposed updated parts (a) and (b) of as of the Initial Funding Date and giving effect to the Allied Acquisition for approval by the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably conditioned, withheld or delayed), (F) the accuracy of and attaching a
Sections 4.03(a)
(b)
Schedule 2.03
Schedule 5.16
 
proposed updated as of the Initial Funding Date to reflect Liens of Allied and its Subsidiaries for approval by the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably conditioned, withheld or delayed), and (G) the accuracy of and attaching a proposed updated as of the Initial Funding Date to reflect secured Indebtedness of Allied and its Subsidiaries for approval by the Administrative Agent (such approval not to be unreasonably conditioned, withheld or delayed);
Schedule 7.02
Schedule 7.06
     (vi) within a reasonable time prior to the Initial Funding Date, (A) interim or, in the case of any fiscal year end occurring after the Effective Date, audited financial statements of each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and Allied and its Subsidiaries dated as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter or fiscal year end, as the case may be, preceding the Initial Funding Date for which financial statements are available or are required to be filed with the SEC, which financial statements shall be substantially consistent with, and not materially worse than, the unaudited financial statements for each of the Borrower and Allied dated as of March 31, 2008, and (B) pro forma consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries giving effect to the Allied Acquisition as of the date of such interim or audited statements which are consistent in all material respects with the pro forma consolidated financial statements provided to the Arrangers on or before the Initial Funding Date and reflect synergies reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers and Administrative Agent of at least $150,000,000 (for avoidance of doubt, the synergies reflected in the pro forma consolidated financial statements provided to the Arrangers on June 17, 2008 are satisfactory to the Arrangers);
     (vii) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying: (A) that neither the Merger Agreement (including any condition to the consummation of the Allied Acquisition) nor any other agreement, instrument, or document relating to the Allied Acquisition has been altered, amended, waived or otherwise changed or supplemented, in any respect materially adverse to the Lenders (as determined by the Arrangers in their sole discretion), except to the extent agreed to by prior written consent of the Arrangers; and (B) that the Allied Acquisition has been consummated prior to, or is being consummated substantially simultaneously with, the Initial Funding Date, in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement and such other agreements, instruments, and documents relating to the Allied Acquisition (only as amended, altered, waived or otherwise changed in compliance with subpart (A) of this clause (vii)), including, to the extent required by the Merger Agreement, in compliance with applicable Laws and regulatory approvals;
     (viii) evidence reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent that (A) the consolidated capital structure of the Borrower (after giving effect to the Allied Acquisition and related transactions) is as described in the pro forma financial statements described in clause (b)(vi) above, and (B) the amount, tenor, ranking and other terms and conditions of any other equity and debt financings occurring in connection with the Allied Acquisition not previously disclosed to the Administrative Agent are reasonably satisfactory to it;
 
     (ix) evidence reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent of (A) the receipt of all governmental, shareholder and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the Allied Acquisition and other transactions contemplated hereby, except to the extent the failure to receive such consent or approval could not reasonably be expected to have an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including Allied and its Subsidiaries), taken as a whole; and expiration of all applicable waiting periods without any actual action being taken by any authority that (x) would require a Regulatory Divestiture that could reasonably be expected to cause a failure of the Borrower to meet the covenants set forth in or (y) could restrain, prevent or impose any other material adverse conditions that reasonably could be expected to have an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including Allied and its Subsidiaries), taken as a whole, or the Allied Acquisition; (B) the absence of any law or regulation applicable to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or Allied and its Subsidiaries, which, in the reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent, could have an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including Allied and its Subsidiaries), taken as a whole; and (C) the absence of any action, suit, investigation or proceeding, pending or threatened in writing, in any court or before any governmental authority (x) that could reasonably be expected to restrain or prevent the Allied Acquisition or any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including Allied and its Subsidiaries) of their respective obligations under the Loan Documents or (y) involving any of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including Allied and its Subsidiaries) that could reasonably be expected to result in an Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect on the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including Allied and its Subsidiaries), taken as a whole;
Section 7.01
     (x) satisfactory evidence that all outstanding Indebtedness described in of the Merger Agreement (other than the Allied Securitization Program and the Existing Credit Facility) has been repaid or cancelled, all such documentation has been terminated and all guaranties, Liens and security interests associated therewith (including any Liens securing the Allied Indentures) have been released, or that reasonably adequate measures have been or concurrently with the Initial Funding Date are being taken to terminate such documentation and release such guaranties, Liens and security interests, except as otherwise agreed by Administrative Agent;
Section 7.11(b)
     (xi) not more than thirty (30) days prior to the Initial Funding Date, confirmation satisfactory to the Arrangers that the Debt Ratings of the Borrower (after giving effect to the Allied Acquisition) will be either (A) BBB- or better by S&P, and Ba1 or better by Moody's, or (B) Baa3 or better by Moody's and BB+ or better by S&P;
     (xii) favorable opinions of counsel to the Loan Parties addressed to Administrative Agent and each Lender as to the matters described in , in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Administrative Agent;
Exhibit G
     (xiii) evidence of an effective amendment to the Existing Credit Facility that (A) adds pari passu guarantees of the obligations thereunder from the Guarantors (with
 
the guarantees from Allied and the relevant Subsidiaries thereof to become effective the day after the Initial Funding Date), (B) amends the pricing under the Existing Credit Facility to match the pricing set forth in this Agreement, (C) amends the leverage ratio maintenance covenant therein to conform to the levels applicable to this Agreement, and (D) amends such other matters as the Administrative Agent may reasonably determine for the purpose of making the terms of the Existing Credit Facility consistent with the terms of this Agreement (other than the maturity date thereof);
     (xiv) a certificate signed by the Chief Financial Officer of the Borrower, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, (A) demonstrating, on a pro forma basis and after giving effect to the Allied Acquisition and the other transactions contemplated under this Agreement, that the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio for the Computation Period most recently ended (or if such Computation Period ended less than thirty (30) days prior to the Initial Funding Date, for the prior Computation Period), does not exceed 3.50 to 1.00, and (B) certifying that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole and after giving effect to the Allied Acquisition, are Solvent; and
     (xv) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
     (c) All accrued fees and expenses of the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders required to be paid on or before the Initial Funding Date (including all reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Administrative Agent invoiced on or before such date) shall have been paid.
     (d) The Initial Funding Date shall have occurred on or before May 15, 2009.
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required hereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the Initial Funding Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.02
     . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.03 Conditions to all Credit Extensions
     (a) The representations and warranties of (i) Borrower contained in (subject, in the case of the representations and warranties made on the Initial Funding Date, to the limitation set forth in the last sentence of this ) and (ii) each Loan Party contained in each other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished by any Loan Party at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct in all material respects (except, if a qualifier relating to materiality, Material Adverse Effect, Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect or a similar concept applies, such
Article V
Section 4.03(a)
 
representation or warranty shall be required to be true and correct in all respects) on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, (i) the representations and warranties relating to Allied and its Subsidiaries made on the Initial Funding Date under shall be limited to (x) the Specified Credit Agreement Representations and (y) the Specified Merger Agreement Representations (which are incorporated herein by reference), and (ii) the references to "Material Adverse Effect" in the representations made by the Borrower in clause (c) of and in clause (b) of on the Initial Funding Date shall be deemed to be a reference to "Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect".
Section 4.03(a)
Section 5.11(a)
Section 6.01
Article V
Section 5.05
Section 5.11
     (b) No Default shall exist or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
     (c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the applicable L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
     Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.03(a)
(b)
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
     . The Borrower and each of its Material Subsidiaries:
5.01 Corporate Existence and Power
     (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization;
     (b) has the power and authority and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals (i) to own its assets and to carry on its business and (ii) to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party;
     (c) is duly qualified to do business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification; and
     (d) is in compliance with all Requirements of Law;
 
except, in each case referred to in , or , to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
subclause (b)(i)
clause (c)
clause (d)
     . The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not and will not:
5.02 Corporate Authorization; No Contravention
     (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents;
     (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, any document evidencing any material Contractual Obligation to which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority to which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or any of its or their property is subject; or
     (c) violate any Requirement of Law.
     . No approval, consent, exemption, authorization or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority (other than any of the foregoing which has been obtained or made and is in full force and effect) is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.03 Governmental Authorization
     . This Agreement and each other Loan Document constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of each Loan Party, to the extent such Person is a party thereto, enforceable against such Person in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability.
5.04 Binding Effect
     . There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, against the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties (a) which purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (b) as to which there exists a reasonable likelihood of an adverse determination, which determination would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Borrower to pay and perform the Obligations, or (c) pertaining to the Allied Acquisition which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No injunction, writ, temporary restraining order or other order of any nature has been issued by any court or other Governmental Authority purporting to enjoin or restrain the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or directing that the transactions provided for herein or therein not be consummated as herein or therein provided.
5.05 Litigation
     . No Default exists or would result from the incurring of any Obligations by any Loan Party. As of the Initial Funding Date, neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation in any respect which, individually or together with all such defaults, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.06 No Default
 
     . Except as specifically disclosed in :
5.07 ERISA Compliance
Schedule 5.07
     (a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law (or, in the case of an Acquired Plan, can be brought into such compliance without any material fine, penalty or other liability). Except for Acquired Plans with respect to which the failure to have received a qualification letter would not result in any material fine, penalty or other liability, each Plan which is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS (or will be submitted for a determination letter within the applicable remedial amendment period), and to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would cause the loss of such qualification. The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate has made all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code (except for contributions to Acquired Plans not made prior to the respective Plan Acquisition Dates and which do not in the aggregate exceed $1,000,000 for any Acquired Plan), and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
     (b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability under Title IV of ERISA to the Borrower or any Subsidiary in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; (ii) no contribution failure has occurred with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA; (iii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (v) to the best knowledge of the Borrower, neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Section 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; and (vi) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
     . The proceeds of the Loans will be used solely for the purposes set forth in and permitted by and Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is generally engaged in the business of purchasing or selling Margin Stock or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
5.08 Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations
Section 6.12
Section 7.08.
     . The Borrower and each Subsidiary have good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of their respective businesses, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Initial
5.09 Title to Properties
 
Funding Date, the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) is subject to no Liens, other than Permitted Liens.
     . The Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries have filed all Federal and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10 Taxes
     .
5.11 Financial Condition
     (a) The Audited Financial Statements:
     (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein;
     (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the results of operations for the periods covered thereby; and
     (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, absolute or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof, including liabilities for taxes and material Contingent Obligations.
     (b) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . The Borrower conducts in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and existing Environmental Claims on its business, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that, except as specifically disclosed in , such Environmental Laws and Environmental Claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.12 Environmental Matters
Schedule 5.12
     . None of the Borrower, any Person controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is an "Investment Company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Borrower is not subject to any Federal or state statute or regulation limiting its ability to incur Indebtedness.
5.13 Regulated Entities
     . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to or bound by any Contractual Obligation, or subject to any restriction in any Organization Document or any Requirement of Law, which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.14 No Burdensome Restrictions
 
     . The Borrower or its Subsidiaries own or are licensed or otherwise have the right to use all of the material patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, contractual franchises, authorizations and other rights that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person, except to the extent failure to own, license or otherwise have the right to use any such item, or any such conflict, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and which is material to the business or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, infringes upon any rights held by any other Person (excluding infringements which could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect).
5.15 Copyrights, Patents, Trademarks and Licenses, Etc
     . As of the Effective Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in of and has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity other than those specifically disclosed in of . The Material Subsidiaries as of the Effective Date are identified in of .
5.16 Subsidiaries
part (a)
Schedule 5.16
part (b)
Schedule 5.16
part (a)
Schedule 5.16
     . The properties (except to the extent such property, individually or in the aggregate, is not material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies (or are self-insured) in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates.
5.17 Insurance
     . The Borrower and the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including, on and after the Initial Funding Date, Allied and its Subsidiaries), taken as a whole, are Solvent after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents.
5.18 Solvency
     . The representations and warranties made by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the Loan Documents as of the date such representations and warranties are made or deemed made, and the statements contained in any exhibit, report, statement or certificate furnished by or on behalf of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary in connection with the Loan Documents, taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit any material fact necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading in any material respect as of the time when made or delivered.
5.19 Full Disclosure
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, unless the Required Lenders waive compliance in writing:
 
     . The Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, with sufficient copies for each Lender:
6.01 Financial Statements
     (a) as soon as available, but not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such year (together with consolidating notes with respect to the Excluded Subsidiaries and other applicable consolidating information), setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated financial statements to be accompanied by a report of Ernst & Young LLP or another nationally recognized Registered Public Accounting Firm (the ""), which report shall be prepared in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; provided that the reports delivered pursuant to this Section shall not be qualified or limited because of a restricted or limited examination by the Independent Auditor of any material portion of the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's records; and
Independent Auditor
     (b) as soon as available, but not later than 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2008), a copy of the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the period commencing on the first day and ending on the last day of such quarter (together with consolidating notes with respect to the Excluded Subsidiaries and other applicable consolidating information), and certified by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting, in accordance with GAAP (subject to the absence of footnotes and to ordinary, good faith year-end audit adjustments), the financial position and the results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of such date and for such period.
     . The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent, with sufficient copies for each Lender:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
     (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a Compliance Certificate executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower;
subsections 6.01(a)
(b)
     (b) promptly after their becoming available, copies of all financial statements and reports that the Borrower sends to its shareholders, and copies of all financial statements and regular, periodic or special reports (including Forms 10K, 10Q and 8K) that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may make to, or file with, the SEC; and
     (c) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any Lender, may from time to time reasonably request.
 
     Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the earlier of (i) the date on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; and (ii) the date on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); provided that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent (with sufficient copies for each Lender). Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
Schedule 10.02
i.e.
Section 6.02(a)
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ; (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07)
 
     . The Borrower shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
     (a) of the occurrence of any Default known to the Borrower;
     (b) of any matter that has resulted or is reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including:
     (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
     (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or
     (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
     (c) of the occurrence of any of the following events known to the Borrower which affect the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate, and deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender a copy of any notice with respect to such event that is filed with a Governmental Authority and any notice delivered by a Governmental Authority to the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate with respect to such event:
     (i) an ERISA Event;
     (ii) a contribution failure with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA;
     (iii) a material increase in the Unfunded Pension Liability of any Pension Plan;
     (iv) the adoption of, or the commencement of contributions to, any Pension Plan by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate; or
     (v) the adoption of any amendment to a Pension Plan if such amendment results in a material increase in contributions or Unfunded Pension Liability; and
     (d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries.
In addition, the Borrower shall promptly upon the issuance thereof, deliver to the Administrative Agent notice of any announcement by Moody's or S&P (i) of any change in any Debt Rating or (ii) that any Debt Rating will be put on a "negative outlook" or "negative credit watch."
Each notice under this Section shall be accompanied by a written statement by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein, and stating what action the Borrower or any affected Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto. Each
 
notice under shall describe with particularity any and all clauses or provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document that have been breached or violated.
Section 6.03(a)
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to (provided that nothing in this shall prevent the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, not under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, of any Subsidiary so long as no Event of Default exists and no Default will result therefrom):
6.04 Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
Section 6.04
     (a) preserve and maintain in full force and effect its existence and good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization (except in connection with transactions permitted by );
Section 7.04
     (b) preserve and maintain in full force and effect all governmental rights, privileges, qualifications, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business (except in connection with transactions permitted by and sales of assets permitted by ;
Section 7.04
Section 7.03)
     (c) use reasonable efforts, in the ordinary course of business, to preserve its business organization and goodwill (except in connection with transactions permitted by ); and
Section 7.04
     (d) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks;
except, in the case of clauses (b), (c) and (d) above, to the extent the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, maintain and preserve all its property which is used or useful in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Maintenance of Property
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable independent insurers (or pursuant to a self-insurance program), insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
6.06 Insurance
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, pay and discharge, as the same shall become due and payable all material tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
6.07 Tax Obligations
unless
 
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, comply with (i) any Requirements of Law of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over it or its business (including the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act) and (ii) any Contractual Obligation (other than any Contractual Obligation pertaining to Indebtedness) to which it is bound, in both cases the non-compliance with which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws; Contractual Obligations
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its ERISA Affiliates to: (a) maintain each Plan in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law; (b) cause each Plan which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code to maintain such qualification; and (c) make all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, it being understood that any non-compliance with , or with respect to an Acquired Plan existing on the Plan Acquisition Date for such Acquired Plan shall not constitute a violation of this so long as (i) the Borrower is diligently proceeding to remedy such non-compliance and (ii) such non-compliance will not result in any material fine, penalty or other liability.
6.09 Compliance with ERISA
clause (a)
(b)
(c)
Section 6.09
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries (sufficient to permit the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP) shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower and such Subsidiary. The Borrower shall permit, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to permit, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or their respective representatives (in each case at such Person's own expense unless an Event of Default exists), upon reasonable notice at any reasonable time during normal business hours and from time to time at the request of the Administrative Agent or the relevant Lender, to visit and inspect the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (and, if (i) any Default exists and has been continuing for 15 days or (ii) any Event of Default exists, to make copies or abstracts of their respective corporate, financial and operating records), and to examine the properties and books and records of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the appropriate officers, employees or authorized agents of the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
6.10 Inspection of Property and Books and Records
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, conduct its operations and keep and maintain its property in material compliance with all material Environmental Laws. Without limiting the foregoing, the Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, (i) maintain all material operating permits for all landfills now owned or hereafter acquired; and (ii) dispose of hazardous waste only at licensed disposal facilities operating, to the best of the Borrower's or the applicable Subsidiary's knowledge after reasonable inquiry, in material compliance with all material Environmental Laws.
6.11 Environmental Laws
 
     . The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loans (i) to repay the Indebtedness described in and for the payment of all fees and expenses in connection therewith, (ii) to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Allied Acquisition, and (iii) for working capital, capital expenditures, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Requirement of Law or of any Loan Document; that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Loan to acquire any Person if the board of directors of the Person to be acquired has not approved such Acquisition.
6.12 Use of Proceeds
Section 4.02(b)(x)
provided
     . The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent at the time that any Person is designated as or becomes a Material Subsidiary, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within thirty (30) days), cause such Person to (a) become a Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the Guaranty, a Guaranty Joinder Agreement or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in clauses (ii) and (iii) of and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a)), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
6.13 Additional Guarantors
Section 4.02(b)
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, unless the Required Lenders waive compliance in writing:
     .
7.01 Financial Condition Covenants
     (a) . The Borrower shall not permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
     (b) . The Borrower shall not permit the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter to be greater than (i) 4.00 to 1.00 for any Computation Period on or before March 31, 2010, or (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for any Computation Period thereafter.
Maximum Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not suffer or permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, directly or indirectly, make, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to any part of its property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following (""):
7.02 Limitation on Liens
Permitted Liens
     (a) any Lien set forth in (as such Schedule may be updated on the Initial Funding Date), and any extension, renewal or replacement of any such Lien so long as the principal amount secured thereby is not increased and the scope of the property subject to such Lien is not extended;
Schedule 7.02
 
     (b) Liens imposed by law for taxes, assessments or charges of any Governmental Authority for claims not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained in accordance with GAAP;
     (c) statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and other Liens imposed by law or created in the ordinary course of business and in existence less than 120 days from the date of creation thereof for amounts not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained in accordance with GAAP;
     (d) Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA) consisting of pledges or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation;
     (e) Liens on the property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary securing (i) the non-delinquent performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases and statutory obligations, (ii) surety bonds (excluding appeal bonds and other bonds posted in connection with court proceedings or judgments) and (iii) other non-delinquent obligations of a like nature in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business, provided all such Liens in the aggregate would not (even if enforced) cause a Material Adverse Effect;
     (f) Liens consisting of judgment or judicial attachment liens and liens securing contingent obligations on appeal bonds and other bonds posted in connection with court proceedings or judgments, that (i) in the case of judgment and judicial attachment liens, the enforcement of such Liens is effectively stayed and (ii) all such Liens in the aggregate at any time outstanding for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries do not exceed $100,000,000;
provided
     (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, individually or in the aggregate, do not materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the businesses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
     (h) Liens securing obligations in respect of Capital Leases and purchase money financings on assets subject to such leases or financings to the extent such Capital Leases and purchase money financings are otherwise permitted by ;
Section 7.06(b)
     (i) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution; that (i) such deposit account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against access by the Borrower in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by the FRB, and (ii) such deposit account is not intended by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to provide collateral to the depository institution;
provided
     (j) Liens on the rights of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in bonds issued in connection with revenue bond financings in favor of any issuer of a letter of credit used to provide security for the payment of such bonds; and
 
     (k) other Liens, in addition to those permitted by through , securing Indebtedness or arising in connection with Securitization Transactions; that (x) the sum (without duplication) of all such Indebtedness, plus the aggregate investment or claim held at any time by all purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) receivables and other rights to payment in all Securitization Transactions (other than the Allied Securitization Program or any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof) shall not at any time exceed $75,000,000 in aggregate outstanding amount, and (y) the aggregate principal balance owed under the Allied Securitization Program or any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof, shall not at any time exceed $400,000,000 in aggregate outstanding amount.
clauses (a)
(j)
provided
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, lease, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose of (whether in one or a series of transactions) any property (including accounts and notes receivable, with or without recourse) or enter into any agreement to do any of the foregoing (including any sale-leaseback), except:
7.03 Disposition of Assets
     (a) dispositions of inventory, or used, worn-out or surplus equipment, all in the ordinary course of business;
     (b) the sale, assignment or other transfer of accounts receivable, lease receivables or other rights to payment or any interest in the foregoing pursuant to any Securitization Transaction, together in each case with any collections or proceeds thereof, any collection or deposit accounts related thereto, and any collateral, guaranties or property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting, securing or otherwise relating to such receivables or other rights to payment;
     (c) Dispositions of property by any Subsidiary to the Borrower or to a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary; that (i) if the transferor of such property is a Guarantor, the transferee thereof must either be the Borrower or a Guarantor, and (ii) if the transferor of such property is not an Excluded Subsidiary, the transferee must either be the Borrower or a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary;
provided
     (d) any Regulatory Divestiture required in connection with the Allied Acquisition; that (i) no Event of Default shall exist at the time of or result from such Regulatory Divestiture, (ii) such Regulatory Divestiture shall be made for fair market value, (iii) at least 80% of the consideration for such Regulatory Divestiture shall be in the form of cash or cash equivalents (excluding any portion of the consideration allocated to a portion of a Regulatory Divestiture permitted by clause (e) of this ; it being agreed that the Borrower may rely on either this clause (d) or clause (e) below in making any Regulatory Divestiture or, in part, on both of such clauses), and (iv) promptly upon receipt thereof by the Person making such Regulatory Divestiture, the Borrower shall prepay Committed Loans and revolving loans under the Existing Credit Facility on a pro rata basis in an amount equal to the net cash proceeds from such Regulatory Divestiture; and
provided
Section 7.03
     (e) other dispositions which are made for fair market value; that (i) at the time of any such disposition, no Event of Default shall exist or shall result from such disposition
provided
 
and (ii) the aggregate value of all assets so disposed of by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any one-year period (calculated as of the date of any such disposition) shall not exceed 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, merge, consolidate with, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any other Person, except:
7.04 Consolidations and Mergers
     (a) any Subsidiary may merge with the Borrower or with any one or more Subsidiaries; that (i) if any transaction shall be between the Borrower and a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, (ii) if any transaction shall be between a Subsidiary and a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person; and (iii) if any transaction shall be between an Excluded Subsidiary and a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary, a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
provided
     (b) any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) may sell or transfer all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, and any Excluded Subsidiary may transfer all or substantially all of its assets to the Borrower or a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary for nominal consideration or as a result of the voluntary dissolution or liquidation of such Excluded Subsidiary; and
     (c) any merger, consolidation or disposition in connection with a transaction permitted by or an Acquisition permitted by .
Section 7.03
Section 7.05
     .
7.05 Loans and Investments
     (a) The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, purchase or acquire any capital stock, Equity Interest or obligations or other securities of, or any interest in, any Person, or make any Acquisition, or make any advance, loan, extension of credit or capital contribution to or any other investment in any Person (including any Affiliate of the Borrower) (any of the foregoing an ""), unless (x) such loan, advance, investment, acquisition or other purchase does not cause the Borrower to violate the financial covenants contained in or , and (y) no Default would result therefrom.
Investment
Section 7.01(a)
(b)
     (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to make any Investment in any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity after the Initial Funding Date other than the following:
     (i) transfers of receivables and other rights to payment in connection with the Allied Securitization Program (or any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof), together in each case with any collections or proceeds thereof, any collection or deposit accounts
 
related thereto, and any collateral, guaranties or property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting, securing payment or otherwise relating to such receivables or other rights to payment, so long as the maximum outstanding principal amount of the Allied Securitization Program (or such extension, renewal or refinancing) does not exceed $400,000,000;
     (ii) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the RMI Subsidiaries described on ; and
Schedule 7.05(b)
     (iii) other Investments in any Republic Insurance Entity after the Initial Funding Date consisting of (x) cash contributed (whether in the form of debt or equity) to such Republic Insurance Entity and unreimbursed drawings on letters of credit issued at the request of the Borrower or any Subsidiary on behalf of such Republic Insurance Entity so long as the aggregate amount of all such Investments (net of any amounts repaid, returned or reimbursed), when combined with all Investments in any Republic Insurance Entities existing on the Effective Date that consist of cash contributions or unreimbursed drawings under letters of credit, shall not exceed $100,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding, and (y) letters of credit issued at the request of the Borrower or any Subsidiary on behalf of such Republic Insurance Entity so long as the aggregate principal amount of all such letters of credit, when combined with all Investments existing on the Effective Date that consist of letters of credit issued on behalf of all Republic Insurance Entities, shall not exceed $175,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness secured directly or indirectly by assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary other than the following:
7.06 Limitation on Secured Indebtedness
     (a) secured Indebtedness listed on (as such Schedule may be updated on the Initial Funding Date) (including any extensions, renewals and refinancings thereof so long as the principal amount thereof is not increased);
Schedule 7.06
     (b) Capital Leases and purchase money financings on assets subject to such leases or financings in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding;
     (c) Indebtedness supported by letters of credit;
     (d) Indebtedness under the Allied Securitization Program (including any extension, renewal and refinancing thereof) so long as the maximum outstanding principal amount thereof does not exceed $400,000,000;
     (e) other secured Indebtedness not exceeding in the aggregate at any time an outstanding amount of $75,000,000; and
     (f) in the case of any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity, Indebtedness secured directly or indirectly by the assets of such Person or its Subsidiaries.
 
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, enter into any transaction with any Affiliate of the Borrower (other than a Loan Party), except upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate of the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
7.07 Transactions with Affiliates
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, use any portion of the Loan proceeds or any Letter of Credit, directly or indirectly, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock, (ii) to repay or otherwise refinance indebtedness of the Borrower or others incurred to purchase or carry Margin Stock or (iii) to extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock.
7.08 Use of Proceeds
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity), to make any Restricted Payment except that:
7.09 Restricted Payments
     (a) each Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to the Borrower, the Guarantors and any other Person that owns an Equity Interest in such Subsidiary, ratably according to their respective holdings of the type of Equity Interest in respect of which such Restricted Payment is being made;
     (b) the Borrower and each Subsidiary may declare and make dividend payments or other distributions payable solely in the common stock or other common Equity Interests of such Person;
     (c) the Borrower and each Subsidiary may purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire Equity Interests issued by it with the proceeds received from the substantially concurrent issue of new shares of its common stock or other common Equity Interests;
     (d) the Borrower may make any other Restricted Payment so long as (i) such Restricted Payment would not cause the Borrower to violate any financial covenant contained in or and (ii) no other Default would result therefrom; and
Section 7.01(a)
(b)
     (e) until the day after the Initial Funding Date, Allied and its Subsidiaries may make any Restricted Payments that would otherwise have been permitted to be made under the Allied Credit Facility (as defined in the Merger Agreement) as the same was in effect immediately prior to the closing of the Allied Acquisition.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any of its ERISA Affiliates to: (a) engage in a prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; or (b) engage in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
7.10 ERISA
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, engage in any material line of business other than those lines of business carried on by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or Allied and its Subsidiaries on the Effective Date and
7.11 Change in Business
 
lines of business complementary thereto; that (i) in no event will the Borrower permit a material portion of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to involve or relate to hazardous waste, and (ii) in no event will the Borrower direct any Excluded Subsidiary to engage in any business other than (x) in the case of any Securitization Subsidiary, Securitization Transactions permitted hereby, and (y) in the case of any other Excluded Subsidiary, the business carried on by such Subsidiary on the later of the Effective Date and the date that such Subsidiary is approved by the Administrative Agent as an Excluded Subsidiary.
provided
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Excluded Subsidiary) to, enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement, any other Loan Document and any Contractual Obligations with respect to the Existing Credit Facility) that (a) limits the ability (i) of any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) to make Restricted Payments to the Borrower or to otherwise transfer property to the Borrower, (ii) of any Subsidiary (other then an Excluded Subsidiary) to guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower or (iii) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person; or (b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person; except, in each case, (1) as required under applicable Requirements of Law, (2) as required under the Loan Documents, (3) for Permitted Liens, (4) for restrictions in the Senior Note Indentures that are in effect on the date hereof, (5) for prohibitions on assignment or transfer contained in leases and (6) as set forth in .
7.12 Burdensome Agreements
Schedule 7.12
     . Any of the following shall constitute an "Event of Default":
8.01 Event of Default
     (a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan or the principal amount of any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within five days after the same becomes due, any interest, fee or any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document.
Non-Payment
     (b) . Any representation or warranty by the Borrower or any Subsidiary made or deemed made herein or in any other Loan Document, or which is contained in any certificate, document or financial or other statement by the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any Responsible Officer furnished at any time under this Agreement or under any other Loan Document, is incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made.
Representation or Warranty
     (c) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of or .
Specific Defaults
subsection 6.03(a)
Article VII
     (d) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after the date upon which written notice thereof is given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Other Defaults
 
     (e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment of Material Financial Obligations when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise, but after giving effect to any applicable grace or cure period); or (B) fails to perform or observe any other condition or covenant, or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist, under one or more agreements or instruments relating to Material Financial Obligations, if the effect of such failure, event or condition (after giving effect to any applicable grace or cure period) is to cause (or require), or to permit the holder or holders of such Material Financial Obligations or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Material Financial Obligations (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause (or require), such Material Financial Obligations to become due and payable (or to be purchased, repurchased, defeased or cash collateralized) prior to the stated maturity thereof.
Cross-Default
     (f) . The Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) ceases or fails to be Solvent, or generally fails to pay, or admits in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, subject to applicable grace periods, if any, whether at stated maturity or otherwise; (ii) voluntarily ceases to conduct its business in the ordinary course; (iii) commences any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to itself; or (iv) takes any action to effectuate or authorize any of the foregoing; that the foregoing shall not apply to the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of a Subsidiary permitted by .
Insolvency, Voluntary Proceedings
provided
Section 6.04
     (g) . (i) Any involuntary Insolvency Proceeding is commenced or filed against the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process is issued or levied against a substantial part of the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's properties, and such proceeding or petition shall not be dismissed, or such writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process shall not be released, vacated or fully bonded, within 60 days after commencement, filing or levy; (ii) the Borrower or any Subsidiary admits the material allegations of a petition against it in any Insolvency Proceeding, or an order for relief (or similar order under non-U.S. law) is ordered in any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to the Borrower or such Subsidiary; or (iii) the Borrower or any Subsidiary acquiesces in the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, mortgagee in possession (or agent therefor), or other similar Person for itself or a substantial portion of its property or business.
Involuntary Proceedings
     (h) . (i) An ERISA Event shall occur with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; (ii) a contribution failure shall occur with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA; or (iii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period (or any period during which (x) the Borrower is permitted to contest its obligation to make such payment without incurring any liability (other than interest) or penalty and (y) the Borrower is contesting such obligation in good faith and by appropriate proceedings), any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA or any contribution obligation under Section 4243 of ERISA, in each case under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000.
ERISA
 
     (i) . One or more non-interlocutory judgments, non-interlocutory orders, decrees or arbitration awards is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary involving in the aggregate a liability (to the extent not covered by insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage) as to any single or related series of transactions, incidents or conditions of $100,000,000 or more, and the same shall remain unvacated and unstayed pending appeal for a period of 25 days after the entry thereof.
Judgments
     (j) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
     (k) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document.
Invalidity of Loan Documents
     . If any Event of Default occurs, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders:
8.02 Remedies
     (a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans (including the commitment of the Swing Line Lender to make Swing Line Loans) and any obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
     (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
     (c) require that the Borrower Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
     (d) exercise on behalf of itself and the other Guaranteed Parties all other rights and remedies available to it and the other Guaranteed Parties under the Loan Documents or applicable law;
, , that upon the occurrence of any event specified in or of (in the case of of , upon the expiration of the 60-day period mentioned therein), the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any other Lender. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of any declaration described in or of the preceding sentence, but failure to give any such notice shall not impair any such declaration or result in any liability to the Administrative Agent.
provided
however
subsection (f)
(g)
Section 8.01
clause (i)
subsection (g)
clause (a)
(b)
 
     . The rights provided for in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights, powers, privileges or remedies provided by law or in equity, or under any other instrument, document or agreement now existing or hereafter arising.
8.03 Rights Not Exclusive
     . After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.04 Application of Receipts
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and L/C Issuers and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations arising under the Loan Documents, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings and Obligations then owing under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements, ratably among the Guaranteed Parties in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
     , to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuers, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and
Fifth
     , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.03(c)
Fifth
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, Obligations arising under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements shall be excluded from the application described above if the Administrative Agent has not received written notice thereof, together with such
 
supporting documentation as the Administrative Agent may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be. Each Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank not a party to this Agreement that has given the notice contemplated by the preceding sentence shall, by such notice, be deemed to have acknowledged and accepted the appointment of the Administrative Agent pursuant to the terms of for itself and its Affiliates as if a "Lender" party hereto.
Article IX
     . Each of the Lenders and each L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article, except hereof, are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and neither the Borrower nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions, except hereof.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
Section 9.06
Section 9.06
     . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.02 Rights as a Lender
     . The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
     (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
 
     (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or an L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
     The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
     . The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or such L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or such L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
     . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any
9.05 Delegation of Duties
 
such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
     . The Administrative Agent may at any time resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' prior notice to the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States and which successor administrative agent shall be consented to by the Borrower at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment prior to the effective date of resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and in consultation with the Borrower, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; provided that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and each L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
Section 10.04
     Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as an L/C Issuer and as Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
     . Each Lender and each L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
 
Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
     . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the syndication agent, co-documentation agents, joint lead arrangers or joint book managers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, a Lender or an L/C Issuer hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
     . In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.03(i)
(j)
2.09
10.04
     (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and each L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
     Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or any L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or any L/C Issuer or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or any L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
 
     The Lenders and the L/C Issuers irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder. Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this .
9.10 Guaranty Matters.
Section 9.10
     No Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank who obtains the benefit of the provisions of , or the Guaranty by virtue of the provisions hereof or of the Guaranty shall have any right to notice of any action or to consent to, direct or object to any action hereunder or under any other Loan Document or otherwise other than in its capacity as a Lender and, in such case, only to the extent expressly provided in the Loan Documents. Without limitation of the foregoing, each such Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank acknowledges that (i) the exercise of rights and remedies under the Guaranty shall be taken solely by the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties; and (ii) such Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be, does not have the right to independently pursue rights or remedies under the Guaranty. Notwithstanding any other provision of this to the contrary, the Administrative Agent shall be required to verify the payment of, or that other satisfactory arrangements have been made with respect to, Obligations arising under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements only if the Administrative Agent has received written notice of such Obligations, together with such supporting documentation as the Administrative Agent may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be.
9.11 Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements.
Section 8.04
Article IX
     Upon (i) the disposition of any Guarantor in a transaction permitted hereunder that causes such Guarantor to cease to be a Subsidiary or the request of the Borrower in the event an existing Guarantor ceases to be a Material Subsidiary (as certified to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower and demonstrated in reasonable detail using financial information from the most recently ended fiscal period for which financial statements are available), the Administrative Agent shall execute such documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower to evidence the release of such Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty (including any related Guaranty Joinder Agreement) and (ii) repayment in full of all Obligations (other than (x) Obligations under any Cash Management Agreement and (y) Obligations under any Guaranteed Hedge Agreement as to which arrangements satisfactory to the applicable Hedge Bank have been made) and termination by the Borrower of the Commitments hereunder in accordance with , the Administrative Agent shall execute such documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower to evidence the release of each Subsidiary that is a Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty (including any related Guaranty Joinder Agreement), except to the extent such Obligations by their terms expressly survive termination of the Guaranty or release of the Guarantor thereunder.
9.12 Release of Guarantors.
Section 2.06
     . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower or any other Loan
10.01 Amendments, Etc
 
Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders (or by the Administrative Agent at the written request of the Required Lenders) and the Borrower or other applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
provided
however
     (a) waive any condition set forth in or without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
Section 4.02
     (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
     (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
     (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
provided
however
     (e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby or change in a manner that would alter the pro rata treatment of reductions of the Aggregate Commitments, in each case without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.13
Section 8.04
Section 2.06
     (f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; or
     (g) release all or substantially all of the Guarantors without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the applicable L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the applicable L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it or extend the Letter of Credit Expiration Date applicable to the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) either Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties
provided
further
 
thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
     .
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
     (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
     (i) if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Bank of America as the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
     (ii) if to any other Lender or L/C Issuer, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent if confirmation of delivery has been received (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
     (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or any L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
     Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the
provided
 
next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
     (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
     (d) . Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
     (e) . The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
 
(including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except in the case of any of the foregoing persons who are seeking indemnification hereunder, to the extent such reliance resulted from such Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
     . No failure by any Guaranteed Party to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties; , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) any L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and provided, further, that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
Section 8.02
provided
Section 10.08
Section 2.13
Section 8.02
Section 2.13
     .
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the
Costs and Expenses
 
syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer, including the reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
     (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, including the reasonable fees and expenses of any attorney who may be an employee of any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the applicable L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
 
     (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), each L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), such L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.12(d)
     (d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
     (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
     (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and Bank of America as an L/C Issuer, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
     . To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, such L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and each L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable
10.05 Payments Set Aside
 
share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
     .
10.06 Successors and Assigns
     (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
     (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
     (i) .
Minimum Amounts
     (A) In the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) In any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
 
, , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met;
provided
however
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
     (A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
     (B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
     (C) the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in its exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
     (D) the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and
 
Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned and assumed by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
     (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
     (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
     Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
 
shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Section 10.08
Section 2.13
     (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
     (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
     (g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
     (h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' prior notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' prior notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; that such successor shall consent to such appointment by the Borrower; and that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of an L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to . Upon the appointment of a successor
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
provided
further
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.04(c)
 
L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
     . Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives on a need-to-know basis (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any Eligible Assignee invited to be a Lender pursuant to or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
Section 2.14(b)
     For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed reasonable compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities laws.
 
     . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, each L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, after giving prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or such L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, such L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, such L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
     . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in and or as provided in the applicable Loan Document, this Agreement or such other Loan Documents shall become effective when they shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof or thereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Sections 4.01
4.02
 
     . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
     . If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
     . If (a) any Lender requests compensation under , (b) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , (c) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, or (d) any Lender fails to approve any amendment, waiver or consent requested by the Borrower pursuant to that has received the written approval of not less than the Required Lenders but also requires the approval of such Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
10.13 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.01
Section 10.06
provided
     (i) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
     (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
     (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
 
     (iv) in the case of any such assignment resulting from the refusal of a Lender to approve a requested amendment, waiver or consent, the Person to whom such assignment is being made has agreed to approve such amendment, waiver or consent; and
     (v) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
     A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
     .
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
     (a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
     (b) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
     (c) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
 
     (d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
     . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial
     . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders with respect to
10.16 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
     . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Loan Party, which information includes the name and address of each Loan Party, each Loan Party's tax identification number and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Loan Party in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
10.17 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
     dated as of September 18, 2008 (this "") is made among , a Delaware corporation (the ""), (""), in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the ""), and each of the Lenders signatory hereto. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement (as defined in below).
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT
Amendment
REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.
Borrower
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Bank of America
Administrative Agent
Recital A
     A. The Borrower, Bank of America, as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the Lenders party thereto have entered into a Credit Agreement, dated as of April 26, 2007 (as in effect on the date hereof, the ""), pursuant to which the Lenders have made available to Borrower a revolving credit facility with a swing line sublimit and a letter of credit sublimit.
Credit Agreement
     B. The Borrower has advised the Administrative Agent that it intends to acquire Allied Waste Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 22, 2008, among the Borrower, RS Merger Wedge, Inc. and Allied (such transaction, the "").
Allied
Allied Acquisition
     C. In connection with the Allied Acquisition, the Borrower is entering into a new revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,750,000,000 pursuant to a credit agreement to be dated on or about the date hereof (the "") among the Borrower, Bank of America, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto.
New Credit Agreement
     D. The Borrower has requested that the Credit Agreement be amended as set forth in this Amendment in order to facilitate the Allied Acquisition and to make certain provisions of the Credit Agreement consistent with the provisions of the New Credit Agreement.
     E. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders signatory hereto are willing to effect such amendment on the terms and conditions contained in this Amendment.
     In consideration of the premises and further valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     1. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to the Credit Agreement
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
 
     (a) (i) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) other than any Gates Entity (as hereinafter defined) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "option right")), directly or indirectly, of more than 25% of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower ("") on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right) or (ii) any one or more of Cascade Investment, L.L.C. (""), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust (the ""), any entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by Cascade or the Trust, or any Person directly or indirectly controlling Cascade, the Trust or any such entity, or any trustee of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") becomes the "beneficial owner", directly or indirectly, of Voting Securities of the Borrower sufficient to cause the aggregate "beneficial ownership" of Voting Securities of the Borrower by all of the Gates Entities to exceed 34% of the Voting Securities of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that the Gates Entities have the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
Voting Securities
Cascade
Trust
Gates Entities
     (b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual
 
or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
     "" means that amount of cash of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries held by or pledged to trustees for industrial revenue bonds and tax-exempt financings that is included on the balance sheet of the Borrower, at any date of determination, in the line item "Restricted Cash."
Restricted Cash
     (v) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, an L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that permits the automatic reinstatement of all or a portion of the stated amount thereof after any drawing thereunder (each, an ""). Unless otherwise directed by such L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such L/C Issuer to permit such reinstatement. Once an Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit has been issued, except as provided in the following sentence, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to reinstate all or a portion of the stated amount thereof in accordance with the provisions of such Letter of Credit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit permits an L/C Issuer to decline to reinstate all or any portion of the stated amount thereof after a drawing thereunder by giving notice of such non-reinstatement within a specified number of days after such drawing (the ""), such L/C Issuer shall not permit such reinstatement if it has received a notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Reinstatement Deadline (A) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such reinstatement or (B) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or
Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit
Non-Reinstatement Deadline
 
the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied or that such reinstatement would violate the proviso to the first sentence of (treating such reinstatement as an L/C Credit Extension for purposes of this clause) and, in each case, directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such reinstatement.
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(a)(i)
     2. . The effectiveness of the amendments to the Credit Agreement set forth in above is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent (the first date all such conditions have been satisfied, the ""):
Conditions Precedent to Section 1(a) Amendments
Section 1(a)
Amendment Effective Date
 
     3. . The effectiveness of the amendments to the Credit Agreement set forth in above is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent (the first date all such conditions have been satisfied, the ""):
Conditions Precedent to Section 1(b) Amendments
Section 1(b)
Allied Acquisition Date
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the conditions to any Credit Extension under the Credit Agreement on the Allied Acquisition Date for the purpose of consummating the Allied Acquisition shall be as set forth in the Amended Credit Agreement; that all conditions set forth in this have been satisfied other than those to result from the funding of any such Credit Extension.
provided
Section 3
     4. . In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Amendment, the Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows:
Representations and Warranties
     5. . This Amendment, together with the Loan Documents (collectively, the ""), sets forth the entire understanding and agreement of the parties hereto in relation to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior negotiations and agreements among the parties relating to such subject matter. No promise, condition, representation or warranty, express or implied, not set forth in the Relevant Documents shall bind any party hereto, and no such party has relied on any such promise, condition, representation or warranty. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that, except as otherwise expressly stated in the Relevant Documents, no representations, warranties or commitments, express or implied, have been made by any party to the other in relation to the subject matter hereof or thereof. None of the terms or conditions of this Amendment may be changed, modified, waived or canceled orally or otherwise, except in writing and in accordance with of the Credit Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Relevant Documents
Section 10.01
     6. . Except as hereby specifically amended, modified or supplemented, the Credit Agreement and all other Loan Documents are hereby
Full Force and Effect of Amendment
 
confirmed and ratified in all respects and shall be and remain in full force and effect according to their respective terms.
     7. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by telecopy, facsimile or other electronic transmission (including .PDF) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts
     8. . This Amendment shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Florida.
Governing Law
     9. . Should any one or more of the provisions of this Amendment be determined to be illegal or unenforceable as to one or more of the parties hereto, all other provisions nevertheless shall remain effective and binding on the parties hereto.
Enforceability
     10. . All references in any of the Loan Documents to the "Credit Agreement" shall mean the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby.
References
     11. . This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and their respective successors and assignees to the extent such assignees are permitted assignees as provided in of the Credit Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
Section 10.06
 
     , the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be made, executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
EXHIBIT B
     dated as of , 200___(this ""), is being entered into among (each a "" and collectively the "") and ., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the "") for each of the Guaranteed Parties (as defined in the Credit Agreement referenced below). All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT
                    
   
Guaranty Agreement
EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED AND EACH OTHER PERSON WHO SHALL BECOME A PARTY HERETO BY EXECUTION OF A GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT
Guarantor
Guarantors
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A
Administrative Agent
     A. Pursuant to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of April 26, 2007 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), among Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Administrative Agent, and the lenders now or hereafter party thereto (the ""), the Lenders have provided to the Borrower a revolving credit facility including letter of credit and swing line facilities.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Lenders
     B. Certain additional extensions of credit may be made from time to time for the benefit of the Guarantors pursuant to certain Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements.
     C. The execution and delivery of this Guaranty Agreement is a condition precedent to the Guaranteed Parties' obligations to make and maintain such extensions of credit.
     D. Each Guarantor is, directly or indirectly, a Domestic Subsidiary and will materially benefit from such extensions of credit.
     In order to induce the Guaranteed Parties to from time to time make and maintain extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement and under the Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     . Each Guarantor hereby jointly and severally, unconditionally, absolutely, continually and irrevocably guarantees to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties the payment and performance in full of the Guaranteed Liabilities (as defined below). For all purposes of this Guaranty Agreement, "" means: (a) the Borrower's prompt payment in full, when due or declared due and at all such times, of all Obligations and all other amounts pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Notes, and all other Loan Documents heretofore, now or at any time or times hereafter owing, arising, due or payable from the Borrower to any one or more of the Guaranteed Parties, including principal, interest, premiums and fees (including all fees and expenses of counsel (collectively, ""); (b) the Borrower's prompt, full and faithful performance, observance and discharge of
1. 
Guaranty
Guaranteed Liabilities
Attorneys' Costs
 
each and every agreement, undertaking, covenant and provision to be performed, observed or discharged by the Borrower under the Credit Agreement, the Notes and all other Loan Documents; and (c) the prompt payment in full by each Loan Party, when due or declared due and at all such times, of obligations and liabilities now or hereafter arising under the Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements. The Guarantors' obligations to the Guaranteed Parties under this Guaranty Agreement are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "" and, with respect to each Guarantor individually, the "". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the liability of each Guarantor individually with respect to its Guarantor's Obligations shall be limited to an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render its obligations hereunder subject to avoidance under Section 548 of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provisions of any applicable state law.
Guarantors' Obligations
Guarantor's Obligations
     Each Guarantor agrees that it is jointly and severally, directly and primarily liable (subject to the limitation in the immediately preceding sentence) for the Guaranteed Liabilities.
     For purposes of this Guaranty Agreement, "" means the date as of which all of the following shall have occurred: (a) the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, (b) all Obligations have been paid in full (other than (x) contingent indemnification obligations and (y) obligations and liabilities under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements as to which arrangements satisfactory to the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank have been made), and (c) all Letters of Credit have terminated or expired or been cancelled (other than Letters of Credit as to which other arrangements with respect thereto satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer shall have been made).
Facility Termination Date
     If the Borrower shall default in payment or performance of any of the Guaranteed Liabilities, whether principal, interest, premium, fees (including, but not limited to, Attorneys' Costs), or otherwise, when and as the same shall become due, and after expiration of any applicable grace period, whether according to the terms of the Credit Agreement, by acceleration, or otherwise, or upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, then any or all of the Guarantors will, upon written demand thereof by the Administrative Agent, fully pay to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties, subject to any restriction on each Guarantor's Obligations set forth in hereof, an amount equal to all the Guaranteed Liabilities then due and owing.
2. 
Payment
.
Section 1
     . This is a guaranty of payment and not of collection. The Guarantors' Obligations under this Guaranty Agreement shall be joint and several, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and each Guarantor hereby expressly waives, to the extent permitted by law, any defense to its obligations under this Guaranty Agreement to which it is a party by reason of:
3. 
Absolute Rights and Obligations
     (a) any lack of legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement, of any of the Notes, of any other Loan Document, of any Guaranteed Cash Management Agreement or Guaranteed Hedge Agreement or of any other agreement or instrument creating, providing security for, or otherwise relating to any of the Guarantors'
 
Obligations, any of the Guaranteed Liabilities, or any other guaranty of any of the Guaranteed Liabilities (the Loan Documents, the Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements, the Guaranteed Hedge Agreements and all such other agreements and instruments being collectively referred to as the "");
Related Agreements
     (b) any action taken under any of the Related Agreements, any exercise of any right or power therein conferred, any failure or omission to enforce any right conferred thereby, or any waiver of any covenant or condition therein provided;
     (c) any acceleration of the maturity of any of the Guaranteed Liabilities, of the Guarantor's Obligations of any other Guarantor, or of any other obligations or liabilities of any Person under any of the Related Agreements;
     (d) any release, exchange, non-perfection, lapse in perfection, disposal, deterioration in value, or impairment of any security for any of the Guaranteed Liabilities, for any of the Guarantor's Obligations of any Guarantor, or for any other obligations or liabilities of any Person under any of the Related Agreements;
     (e) any dissolution of the Borrower or any Guarantor or any other party to a Related Agreement, or the combination or consolidation of the Borrower or any Guarantor or any other party to a Related Agreement into or with another entity or any transfer or disposition of any assets of the Borrower or any Guarantor or any other party to a Related Agreement;
     (f) any extension (including without limitation extensions of time for payment), renewal, amendment, restructuring or restatement of, any acceptance of late or partial payments under, or any change in the amount of any borrowings, other credit extensions or any credit facilities available under, the Credit Agreement, any of the Notes or any other Loan Document or any other Related Agreement, in whole or in part;
     (g) the existence, addition, modification, termination, reduction or impairment of value, or release of any other guaranty (or security therefor) of the Guaranteed Liabilities (including without limitation the Guarantor's Obligations of any other Guarantor and obligations arising under any other Guaranty now or hereafter in effect);
     (h) any waiver of, forbearance or indulgence under, or other consent to any change in or departure from any term or provision contained in the Credit Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other Related Agreement, including without limitation any term pertaining to the payment or performance of any of the Guaranteed Liabilities, any of the Guarantor's Obligations of any other Guarantor, or any of the obligations or liabilities of any party to any other Related Agreement; or
     (i) any other circumstance whatsoever (with or without notice to or knowledge of any Guarantor) which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risks of such Guarantor, or might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable defense available to, or discharge of, a surety or a guarantor, including without limitation any
 
right to require or claim that resort be had to the Borrower or any other Loan Party or to any collateral in respect of the Guaranteed Liabilities or Guarantors' Obligations.
It is the express purpose and intent of the parties hereto that this Guaranty Agreement and the Guarantors' Obligations hereunder and under each Guaranty Joinder Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and shall not be discharged except by payment as herein provided.
     . All Guarantors' Obligations will be paid in lawful currency of the United States of America and in immediately available funds, regardless of any law, regulation or decree now or hereafter in effect that might in any manner affect the Guaranteed Liabilities, or the rights of any Guaranteed Party with respect thereto as against the Borrower, or cause or permit to be invoked any alteration in the time, amount or manner of payment by the Borrower of any or all of the Guaranteed Liabilities.
4. 
Currency and Funds of Payment
     . Without limiting the provisions of hereof, in the event that there shall occur and be continuing an Event of Default, then notwithstanding any collateral or other security or credit support for the Guaranteed Liabilities, at the Administrative Agent's election and without notice thereof or demand therefor (except as provided in the Credit Agreement), the Guarantors' Obligations shall immediately be and become due and payable.
5. 
Events of Default
Section 2
     . Until this Guaranty Agreement is terminated in accordance with hereof, each Guarantor hereby unconditionally subordinates all present and future debts, liabilities or obligations now or hereafter owing to such Guarantor (a) of the Borrower, to the payment in full of the Guaranteed Liabilities, (b) of every other Guarantor (an "obligated guarantor"), to the payment in full of the Guarantors' Obligations of such obligated guarantor, and (c) of each other Person now or hereafter constituting a Loan Party, to the payment in full of the obligations of such Loan Party owing to any Guaranteed Party and arising under the Loan Documents, any Guaranteed Cash Management Agreement or any Guaranteed Hedge Agreement. All amounts due under such subordinated debts, liabilities, or obligations shall, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, be collected and, upon request by the Administrative Agent, paid over forthwith to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties on account of the Guaranteed Liabilities, the Guarantors' Obligations, or such other obligations, as applicable, and, after such request and pending such payment, shall be held by such Guarantor as agent and bailee of the Guaranteed Parties separate and apart from all other funds, property and accounts of such Guarantor.
6. 
Subordination
Section 21
     . Each Guarantor from time to time shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties, on written demand, at the Administrative Agent's Office or such other address as the Administrative Agent shall give notice of to such Guarantor, the Guarantors' Obligations as they become or are declared due, and in the event such payment is not made forthwith, the Administrative Agent may proceed to suit against any one or more or all of the Guarantors. At the Administrative Agent's election, one or more and successive or concurrent suits may be brought hereon by the Administrative Agent against any one or more or all of the Guarantors, whether or not suit has been commenced against the Borrower, any other Guarantor, or any other Person and whether or not the Guaranteed Parties have taken or failed to
7. 
Suits
 
take any other action to collect all or any portion of the Guaranteed Liabilities or Guarantors' Obligations or have taken or failed to take any actions against any collateral securing payment or performance of all or any portion of the Guaranteed Liabilities or Guarantors' Obligations, and irrespective of any event, occurrence, or condition described in hereof.
Section 3
     . Each Guarantor waives any right to assert against any Guaranteed Party as a defense, counterclaim, set-off, recoupment or cross claim in respect of its Guarantor's Obligations, any defense (legal or equitable) or other claim which such Guarantor may now or at any time hereafter have against the Borrower or any or all of the Guaranteed Parties without waiving any additional defenses, set-offs, counterclaims or other claims otherwise available to such Guarantor.
8. 
Set-Off and Waiver
     .
9. 
Waiver of Notice; Subrogation
     (a) Each Guarantor hereby waives to the extent permitted by law notice of the following events or occurrences: (i) acceptance of this Guaranty Agreement; (ii) the Guaranteed Parties' heretofore, now or from time to time hereafter making Loans and issuing Letters of Credit and otherwise loaning monies or giving or extending credit to or for the benefit of the Borrower or any other Loan Party, or otherwise entering into arrangements with any Loan Party giving rise to Guaranteed Liabilities, whether pursuant to the Credit Agreement or the Notes or any other Loan Document or Related Agreement or any amendments, modifications, or supplements thereto, or replacements or extensions thereof; (iii) presentment, demand (other than any written demand expressly required hereunder), default, non-payment, partial payment and protest; and (iv) any other event, condition, or occurrence described in hereof. Each Guarantor agrees that each Guaranteed Party may heretofore, now or at any time hereafter do any or all of the foregoing in such manner, upon such terms and at such times as each Guaranteed Party, in its sole and absolute discretion, deems advisable, without in any way or respect impairing, affecting, reducing or releasing such Guarantor from its Guarantor's Obligations, and each Guarantor hereby consents to each and all of the foregoing events or occurrences.
Section 3
     (b) Each Guarantor hereby agrees that payment or performance by such Guarantor of its Guarantor's Obligations under this Guaranty Agreement may be enforced by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Guaranteed Parties upon written demand by the Administrative Agent to such Guarantor without the Administrative Agent being required, such Guarantor expressly waiving to the extent permitted by law any right it may have to require the Administrative Agent, to (i) prosecute collection or seek to enforce or resort to any remedies against the Borrower or any other Guarantor or any other guarantor of the Guaranteed Liabilities, or (ii) seek to enforce or resort to any remedies with respect to any security interests, Liens or encumbrances granted to the Administrative Agent or any Lender or other party to a Related Agreement by the Borrower, any other Guarantor or any other Person on account of the Guaranteed Liabilities or any guaranty thereof,
IT BEING EXPRESSLY UNDERSTOOD, ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO BY SUCH GUARANTOR THAT DEMAND UNDER THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT MAY BE MADE BY THE
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, AND THE PROVISIONS HEREOF ENFORCED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, EFFECTIVE AS OF THE FIRST DATE ANY EVENT OF DEFAULT OCCURS AND IS CONTINUING.
     (c) Each Guarantor further agrees with respect to this Guaranty Agreement that it shall have no right of subrogation, reimbursement, contribution or indemnity, nor any right of recourse to security for the Guaranteed Liabilities, unless and until 93 days immediately following the Facility Termination Date shall have elapsed without the filing or commencement, by or against any Loan Party, of any state or federal action, suit, petition or proceeding seeking any reorganization, liquidation or other relief or arrangement in respect of creditors of, or the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, trustee or conservator in respect to, such Loan Party or its assets. This waiver is expressly intended to prevent the existence of any claim in respect of such subrogation, reimbursement, contribution or indemnity by any Guarantor against the estate of any other Loan Party within the meaning of Section 101 of the Bankruptcy Code, in the event of a subsequent case involving any other Loan Party. If an amount shall be paid to any Guarantor on account of such rights at any time prior to termination of this Guaranty Agreement in accordance with the provisions of hereof, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties, to be credited and applied upon the Guarantors' Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement or otherwise as the Guaranteed Parties may elect. The agreements in this subsection shall survive repayment of all of the Guarantors' Obligations, the termination or expiration of this Guaranty Agreement in any manner, including but not limited to termination in accordance with hereof, and occurrence of the Facility Termination Date.
Section 21
Section 21
     . This Guaranty Agreement shall be effective as of the date first above written and shall continue in full force and effect until termination in accordance with hereof. Any claim or claims that the Guaranteed Parties may at any time hereafter have against a Guarantor under this Guaranty Agreement may be asserted by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Guaranteed Parties by written notice directed to such Guarantor in accordance with hereof.
10. 
Effectiveness; Enforceability
Section 21
Section 23
     . Each Guarantor warrants and represents to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties, that it has the power and authority and is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Guaranty Agreement (or the Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which it is a party, as applicable), and to perform its obligations under this Guaranty Agreement, that this Guaranty Agreement (or the Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which it is a party, as applicable) has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Guarantor by its duly authorized representatives; that this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which such Guarantor is a party) is legal, valid, binding and enforceable against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general equitable principles; and that such Guarantor's execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty
11. 
Representations and Warranties
 
Joinder Agreement to which such Guarantor is a party) do not require any consent or approval of any Person and do not violate or constitute a breach of any of its Organization Documents, any agreement or instrument to which such Guarantor is a party, or any law, order, regulation, decree or award of any governmental authority or arbitral body to which it or its properties or operations is subject.
     . Each Guarantor agrees to be jointly and severally liable for the payment of all reasonable fees and expenses, including Attorneys' Costs, incurred by any Guaranteed Party in connection with the enforcement of this Guaranty Agreement, whether or not suit be brought.
12. 
Expenses
     . Each Guarantor agrees that this Guaranty Agreement shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment received by any Guaranteed Party in respect of any Guaranteed Liabilities is rescinded or must be restored for any reason, or is repaid by any Guaranteed Party in whole or in part in good faith settlement of any pending or threatened avoidance claim.
13. 
Reinstatement
     . Each Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties, that: (a) such Guarantor has adequate means to obtain on a continuing basis (i) from the Borrower, information concerning the Loan Parties and the Loan Parties' financial condition and affairs and (ii) from other reliable sources, such other information as it deems material in deciding to provide this Guaranty Agreement and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement (""), and has full and complete access to the Loan Parties' books and records and to such Other Information; (b) such Guarantor is not relying on any Guaranteed Party or its or their employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, to provide any such information, now or in the future; (c) such Guarantor has been furnished with and reviewed the terms of the Credit Agreement and such other Loan Documents and Related Agreements as it has requested, is executing this Guaranty Agreement (or the Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which it is a party, as applicable) freely and deliberately, and understands the obligations and financial risk undertaken by providing this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement); (d) such Guarantor has relied solely on such Guarantor's own independent investigation, appraisal and analysis of the Borrower, the Borrower's financial condition and affairs, the Other Information, and such other matters as it deems material in deciding to provide this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement) and is fully aware of the same; and (e) such Guarantor has not depended or relied on any Guaranteed Party or its or their employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, for any information whatsoever concerning the Borrower or the Borrower's financial condition and affairs or any other matters material to such Guarantor's decision to provide this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement), or for any counseling, guidance, or special consideration or any promise therefor with respect to such decision. Each Guarantor agrees that no Guaranteed Party has any duty or responsibility whatsoever, now or in the future, to provide to such Guarantor any information concerning the Borrower or the Borrower's financial condition and affairs, or any Other Information, other than as expressly provided herein, and that, if such Guarantor receives any such information from any Guaranteed Party or its or their employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, such Guarantor will independently verify such information and will not rely on any Guaranteed Party or its or their
14. 
Reliance
Other Information
 
employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, with respect to such information.
     . The rules of interpretation contained in of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Guaranty Agreement and each Guaranty Joinder Agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference. All representations and warranties contained herein shall survive the delivery of documents and any extension of credit referred to herein or guaranteed hereby.
15. 
Rules of Interpretation
Section 1.02
     . This Guaranty Agreement and each Guaranty Joinder Agreement, together with the Credit Agreement and other Loan Documents, constitutes and expresses the entire understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior negotiations, agreements, understandings, inducements, commitments or conditions, express or implied, oral or written, with respect to such subject matter except as herein contained. The express terms hereof control and supersede any course of performance or usage of the trade inconsistent with any of the terms hereof. Except as provided in hereof, neither this Guaranty Agreement nor any Guaranty Joinder Agreement nor any portion or provision hereof or thereof may be changed, altered, modified, supplemented, discharged, canceled, terminated, or amended orally or in any manner other than as provided in the Credit Agreement.
16. 
Entire Agreement
Section 21
     . This Guaranty Agreement, each Guaranty Joinder Agreement and the terms, covenants and conditions hereof and thereof, shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto, and to their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns; , , that no Guarantor shall be permitted to assign any of its rights, powers, duties or obligations under this Guaranty Agreement, any Guaranty Joinder Agreement or any other interest herein or therein without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence of this , any Lender may assign to one or more Persons, or grant to one or more Persons participations in or to, all or any part of its rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement (to the extent permitted by the Credit Agreement); and to the extent of any such assignment or participation such other Person shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to such Lender herein or otherwise, subject however, to the provisions of the Credit Agreement, including thereof (concerning the Administrative Agent) and thereof concerning assignments and participations. All references herein to the Administrative Agent shall include any successor thereof.
17. 
Binding Agreement; Assignment
provided
however
Section 17
Article IX
Section 10.06
     No Guaranteed Party (other than the Administrative Agent) that obtains the benefit of this Guaranty Agreement shall have any right to notice of any action or to consent to, direct or object to any action hereunder (including the release, impairment or modification of any Guarantors' Obligations or security therefor) other than in its capacity as a Lender and, in such case, only to the extent expressly provided in the Loan Documents. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Guaranty Agreement to the contrary, the Administrative Agent shall only be required to verify the payment of, or that
18.
Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedging Agreements
.
 
other satisfactory arrangements have been made with respect to, the Guaranteed Obligations arising under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements to the extent the Administrative Agent has received written notice of such Obligations, together with such supporting documentation as it may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be. Each Guaranteed Party not a party to the Credit Agreement that obtains the benefit of this Guaranty Agreement shall be deemed to have acknowledged and accepted the appointment of the Administrative Agent pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, and that with respect to the actions and omissions of the Administrative Agent hereunder or otherwise relating hereto that do or may affect such Guaranteed Party, the Administrative Agent and each of its Related Parties shall be entitled to all the rights, benefits and immunities conferred under of the Credit Agreement.
Article IX
     The provisions of this Guaranty Agreement are independent of and separable from each other. If any provision hereof shall for any reason be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof, but this Guaranty Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
19. 
Severability
.
     This Guaranty Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of this Guaranty Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart executed by the Guarantors against whom enforcement is sought. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this , the provisions of of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Guaranty Agreement.
20. 
Counterparts
.
Section 20
Section 10.10
     Subject to reinstatement pursuant to hereof, this Guaranty Agreement and each Guaranty Joinder Agreement, and all of the Guarantors' Obligations hereunder (excluding those Guarantors' Obligations relating to Guaranteed Liabilities that expressly survive such termination) shall terminate on the Facility Termination Date.
21. 
Termination
.
Section 13
     All remedies hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party provided by law or under the Credit Agreement, the other Related Agreements or other applicable agreements or instruments. The making of the Loans and other credit extensions pursuant to the Credit Agreement and other Related Agreements shall be conclusively presumed to have been made or extended, respectively, in reliance upon each Guarantor's guaranty of the Guaranteed Liabilities pursuant to the terms hereof. Any amounts not paid when due under this Guaranty Agreement shall bear interest at the Default Rate.
22. 
Remedies Cumulative; Late Payments
.
     Any notice required or permitted hereunder or under any Guaranty Joinder Agreement shall be given, (a) with respect to each Guarantor, at the address of the Borrower indicated in of the Credit Agreement and (b) with respect to the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party, at the Administrative Agent's address indicated in of the Credit Agreement. All such addresses may be modified, and
23. 
Notices
.
Schedule 10.02
Schedule 10.02
 
all such notices shall be given and shall be effective, as provided in of the Credit Agreement for the giving and effectiveness of notices and modifications of addresses thereunder.
Section 10.02
     Each Person that shall at any time execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a Guaranty Joinder Agreement substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto shall thereupon irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally become a party hereto and obligated hereunder as a Guarantor, and all references herein and in the other Loan Documents to the Guarantors or to the parties to this Guaranty Agreement shall be deemed to include such Person as a Guarantor hereunder.
24. 
Joinder
.
     
25. 
Governing Law; Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial
.
     
(a) THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT AND EACH GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS EXECUTED, AND TO BE FULLY PERFORMED, IN SUCH STATE.
     
(b) EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY EXPRESSLY AND IRREVOCABLY AGREES AND CONSENTS THAT ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE INSTITUTED IN ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT SITTING IN THE COUNTY OF NEW YORK, STATE OF NEW YORK, UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND, BY THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR A GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT, SUCH GUARANTOR EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE IN, OR TO THE EXERCISE OF JURISDICTION OVER IT AND ITS PROPERTY BY, ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS GENERALLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING.
     
(c) EACH GUARANTOR AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS MAY BE MADE BY PERSONAL SERVICE OF A COPY OF THE SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT OR OTHER LEGAL PROCESS IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, OR BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL (POSTAGE PREPAID) TO THE ADDRESS FOR NOTICES TO SUCH GUARANTOR IN EFFECT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 23
HEREOF, OR BY ANY OTHER METHOD OF SERVICE PROVIDED FOR UNDER THE APPLICABLE LAWS IN EFFECT IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     
(d) NOTHING CONTAINED IN SUBSECTIONS (b) or (c) HEREOF SHALL PRECLUDE THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT FROM BRINGING ANY
 
SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION WHERE ANY GUARANTOR OR ANY OF SUCH GUARANTOR'S PROPERTY OR ASSETS MAY BE FOUND OR LOCATED. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY THE APPLICABLE LAWS OF ANY SUCH JURISDICTION, EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT AND EXPRESSLY WAIVES, IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, OBJECTION TO THE EXERCISE OF JURISDICTION OVER IT AND ITS PROPERTY BY ANY SUCH OTHER COURT OR COURTS WHICH NOW OR HEREAFTER MAY BE AVAILABLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW.
     
(e) IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING TO ENFORCE OR DEFEND ANY RIGHTS OR REMEDIES UNDER OR RELATED TO THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT OR ANY AMENDMENT, INSTRUMENT, DOCUMENT OR AGREEMENT DELIVERED OR THAT MAY IN THE FUTURE BE DELIVERED IN CONNECTION THEREWITH, EACH GUARANTOR AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT ON BEHALF OF THE GUARANTEED PARTIES HEREBY AGREE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THAT ANY SUCH ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE TRIED BEFORE A COURT AND NOT BEFORE A JURY AND HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVE, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT ANY SUCH PERSON MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY SUCH ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING.
     
(f) EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY EXPRESSLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION IT MAY HAVE THAT ANY COURT TO WHOSE JURISDICTION IT HAS SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO THE TERMS HEREOF IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.
 
     , the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Guaranty Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
     dated as of , 20 (this ""), is made by , a (the ""), in favor of , in its capacity as Administrative Agent (the "") for the Guaranteed Parties (as defined in the Guaranty Agreement referenced below; all capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in such Guaranty Agreement).
THIS GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT
                    
   
Guaranty Joinder Agreement
                    
                    
                    
                      
Joining Guarantor
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
     A. Certain Domestic Subsidiaries of Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), are party to a Guaranty Agreement dated as of , 200 (as in effect on the date hereof, the "").
Borrower
                    
 
Guaranty Agreement
     B. The Joining Guarantor is a Domestic Subsidiary and is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement to be joined as a party to the Guaranty Agreement as a Guarantor.
     C. The Joining Guarantor will materially benefit directly and indirectly from the making and maintenance of the extensions of credit made from time to time under the Credit Agreement, Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements.
     In order to induce the Guaranteed Parties to from time to time make and maintain extensions of credit under the Credit Agreement, Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements, the Joining Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
     The Joining Guarantor hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally becomes a party to the Guaranty Agreement as a Guarantor and bound by all the terms, conditions, obligations, liabilities and undertakings of each Guarantor or to which each Guarantor is subject thereunder, including without limitation the joint and several, unconditional, absolute, continuing and irrevocable guarantee to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties of the payment and performance in full of the Guaranteed Liabilities whether now existing or hereafter arising, all with the same force and effect as if the Joining Guarantor were a signatory to the Guaranty Agreement.
1. 
Joinder
.
     The Joining Guarantor hereby acknowledges and reaffirms as of the date hereof with respect to itself, its properties and its affairs each of the waivers, representations, warranties, acknowledgements and certifications applicable to any Guarantor contained in the Guaranty Agreement.
2. 
Affirmations
.
 
     The provisions of this Guaranty Joinder Agreement are independent of and separable from each other. If any provision hereof shall for any reason be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof, but this Guaranty Joinder Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
3. 
Severability
.
     This Guaranty Joinder Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of this Guaranty Joinder Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart executed by the Joining Guarantor. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this , the provisions of of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Guaranty Joinder Agreement.
4. 
Counterparts
.
Section 4
Section 10.10
     . The Joining Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives notice of acceptance of this Guaranty Joinder Agreement and acknowledges that the Guaranteed Liabilities are and shall be deemed to be incurred, and credit extensions under the Loan Documents, Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements made and maintained, in reliance on this Guaranty Joinder Agreement and the Joining Guarantor's joinder as a party to the Guaranty Agreement as herein provided.
5. 
Delivery
     The provisions of of the Guaranty Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
6. 
Governing Law; Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial
.
Section 25
 
     , the Joining Guarantor has duly executed and delivered this Guaranty Joinder Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
EXHIBIT C
As used below, the term, "" means the following:
Transaction Documents
The following opinions shall be delivered on the Initial Funding Date by Akerman Senterfitt limited, in the cases of 1, 2(a), 2(b) and 3 to the laws of the States of California, Florida, Maryland, New York and Virginia and the Delaware limited liability company act and general corporation law. Local counsel shall deliver 1, 2(a), 2(b), and 3 with respect to other jurisdictions not .
     Each Loan Party is a corporation, limited liability company or limited partnership, as the case may be, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization.
     Each Loan Party has the requisite corporate, limited liability company or limited partnership power and authority, as the case may be, to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under each of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party. Such execution and delivery, and the repayment of its obligations thereunder:
          has been duly authorized by all necessary and proper corporate, limited partnership or limited liability company action, as the case may be, of such Loan Party;
          does not violate the Organizational Documents of such Loan Party or require any approval of such Loan Party's shareholders, members, managers, limited partners or general partners, as the case may be, which has not been obtained;
          will not violate any law or regulation of the State of New York or any law or regulation of the United States of America (including, without limitation, Regulations T, U or X), in each case, applicable to such Loan Party; and
          will not (i) conflict with, violate or constitute a breach of any contract, agreement, indenture, lease, instrument, commitment, judgment, writ, determination, order, decree or arbitral award to which such Loan Party is a party or by which such Loan Party or any of its properties is bound and which is specifically identified to us in the Officers' Certificates as material to the Credit Parties, taken as a whole, or (ii) to our actual knowledge, without independent
 
investigation, result in the creation or imposition of any lien, pledge, charge or encumbrance of any nature upon or with respect to any of the properties of such Loan Party.
     Each of the Transaction Documents has been duly executed and delivered by a duly authorized officer or signatory of the Loan Party delivering the same.
     No approval by, authorization of, or filing with any agency or instrumentality of the United States or the State of New York is necessary in connection with the execution and delivery by each of the Credit Parties of the Transaction Documents to which it is a party or each Loan Party's performance of its obligations thereunder, except for approvals or authorizations which have been obtained and filings which have been made.
     Each of the Transaction Documents constitutes the valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party that is a party thereto, enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with its terms.
     To our actual knowledge, without independent investigation, and based solely on our review of the Officers' Certificates, there is no pending or threatened in writing, action, suit, investigation or proceeding before or by any court, or governmental department, commission, board, bureau, instrumentality, agency or arbitral authority, which calls into question the validity or enforceability of any of the Transaction Documents.
     No documentary stamp, intangible, excise or other tax is payable to any governmental authority of the State of Florida in connection with the execution and delivery of any of the Transaction Documents.
     You also have requested our opinion as to the enforceability under Florida law of the Florida choice of law provisions contained in the Transaction Documents. We note that as of the date hereof, the Company has its principal place of business and chief executive office in Florida and that the loan documents evidencing the Loans (including the Transaction Documents) have been negotiated by the Company in Florida. In addition, we note that by their terms the Transaction Documents expressly select the laws of the State of Florida as the law governing their interpretation. Based upon the foregoing facts, it is our opinion that it is more likely than not that a "normal" and "reasonable" relationship exists between the transaction evidenced by the Transaction Documents and the State of Florida, and therefore, under the holding of , 395 So. 2d. 507 (Fla. 1981), and the line of subsequent related decisions, while the matter is not free from doubt, it is our opinion that, if the matter were properly presented today to a court in Florida having jurisdiction, and assuming interpretation of the relevant law on a basis consistent with existing authority, it is more likely than not that a Florida court (or a federal court applying Florida choice of law rules) would conclude as binding the designation of Florida as the jurisdiction whose law is to govern the provisions of the Transaction Documents.
Continental Mortgage Investors v. Sailboat Key, Inc.
 
Exhibit A to Amendment No. 1
 
 
Published CUSIP Number: 760760AA6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
EXHIBITS
 
     This CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "") is entered into as of April 26, 2007, among , a Delaware corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and , as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer.
Agreement
REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
     The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
     "" means any Plan which was originally established and maintained by a Person other than the Borrower or an ERISA Affiliate and which became, or hereafter becomes, a Plan as a result of an Acquisition by the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Acquired Plan
     "" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of all or substantially all of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary) provided that the Borrower or the Subsidiary is the surviving entity.
Acquisition
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
     "" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
Exhibit E-2
     "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
     "" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
 
     "" means Allied Waste Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Allied
     "" means the acquisition of Allied pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement.
Allied Acquisition
     "" has the definition specified in the Amendment No. 1 to this Agreement dated as of September 18, 2008, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders party thereto.
Allied Acquisition Date
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any change, event or occurrence that has a material adverse effect on the assets and liabilities (taken as a whole), financial condition or business of such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; , however, that none of the following, or any change, event or occurrence resulting or arising from the following, shall constitute, or shall be considered in determining whether there has occurred, an Allied Acquisition Date Material Adverse Effect: (i) changes in conditions in the U.S. or global economy or capital or financial markets generally, including changes in interest or exchange rates ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (ii) changes in general legal, tax, regulatory, political or business conditions in the jurisdictions in which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries operates ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (iii) general market or economic conditions in the industry in which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries operates ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (iv) actions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (but, excluding from the definition of the Merger Agreement for the purposes of this definition, any amendments or waivers of any terms or conditions thereof); (v) the negotiation, execution, announcement, pendency or performance of the Merger Agreement or the transactions contemplated thereby, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or any public communications by such Person or any of its Subsidiaries regarding the Merger Agreement or the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including, in any such case, the impact thereof on relationships, contractual or otherwise, with lenders, investors, venture partners or employees ( that a negative impact on relationships with customers or vendors, taken as a whole, may be taken into account in determining whether an Allied Acquisition Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred); (vi) changes after the date of the Merger Agreement in applicable United States or foreign, federal, state or local law or interpretations thereof ( that such changes do not affect such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); (vii) changes in GAAP or the interpretation thereof; (viii) any action taken pursuant to or in accordance with the Merger Agreement or at the request or with the consent of the Borrower (in the case of Allied) or Allied (in the case of the Borrower) (it being agreed that the Borrower will not request that Allied or any Subsidiary take any action prohibited by any of clauses (i) through (vi) of of the Merger Agreement without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent); (ix) any failure by such Person to meet any projections, guidance, estimates, forecasts or milestones or financial or operating predictions for or during any period ending (or for which results are
Allied Acquisition Date Material Adverse Effect
provided
provided
provided
provided
provided
provided
Section 6.01(a)
 
released) on or after the date of the Merger Agreement (it being agreed that the facts and circumstances giving rise to such failure may be taken into account in determining whether an Allied Acquisition Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred); (x) any action, arbitration, proceeding, litigation or suit arising from or relating to the Allied Acquisition or the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement; (xi) a decline in the price of such Person's common stock (it being agreed that the facts and circumstances giving rise to such decline may be taken into account in determining whether an Allied Acquisition Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred); (xii) labor conditions in the industry in which such Person and its Subsidiaries operate ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); and (xiii) any natural disaster or other acts of God, acts of war, armed hostilities, sabotage or terrorism, or any escalation or worsening of any such acts of war, armed hostilities, sabotage or terrorism threatened or underway as of the date of the Merger Agreement ( that such conditions do not affect such Person or any of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in a materially disproportionate manner as compared to other companies operating in the same industry); and , in the event any such change, event or occurrence identified in clause (i), (ii), (iii), (vi), (xii) or (xiii) does adversely affect such Person or its Subsidiaries in a materially disproportionate manner (after giving effect to the impact of such change, event or occurrence at the level of impact generally experienced by other companies operating in the same industry), such change, event or occurrence shall be considered in determining whether an Allied Acquisition Date Material Adverse Effect has occurred only to the extent of the disproportionate impact on such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
provided
provided
provided
     "" means that certain Indenture dated as of April 20, 2004, between Allied and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, including all amendments thereto and all supplements thereto.
Allied Convertible Debt Indenture
     "" means, collectively, the Allied Convertible Debt Indenture, the AWNA Senior Notes Indenture and the Browning-Ferris Indenture.
Allied Indentures
     "" means the $400,000,000 accounts receivable securitization available pursuant to (i) the Receivables Sale Agreement dated as of March 7, 2003, among AWNA and the other originators from time to time party thereto, collectively as Originators, and Allied Receivables Funding Incorporated, as Buyer; and (ii) the Second Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement dated as of May 30, 2008, among Allied Receivables Funding Incorporated, as Borrower, AWNA, as Servicer, Atlantic Asset Securitization LLC, as a Lender, Calyon New York Branch, as Lender Group Agent, the Conduit Lenders from time to time party thereto, the Liquidity Banks from time to time party thereto, the Lender Group Agents from time to time party thereto, and Calyon New York Branch, as Agent.
Allied Securitization Program
     "" means each Subsidiary of Allied set forth on , as such Schedule may be updated on or before the Allied Acquisition Date with the approval of the Administrative Agent.
Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary
Schedule 1.01(a)
     "" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the
Applicable Percentage
 
obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
     "" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Pricing Level for the highest Debt Rating of the Borrower, as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
     For purposes of each of the rates set forth in the table below such rates shall be the applicable rate per annum determined as of the day next following receipt by the Administrative Agent from the Borrower of evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent of the then-applicable Debt Rating.
"" means, as of any date of determination, the debt rating of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt as determined by S&P and Moody's (each a "", and collectively, the "").
Debt Rating
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
     The applicable Debt Rating for determining the Pricing Level shall be the highest Debt Rating of the Borrower, , that (i) if the Debt Ratings differ by more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level higher than the Pricing Level of the lower Debt Rating shall apply; (ii) if the Borrower has only one Debt Rating, the Pricing Level of such Debt Rating shall apply; and (iii) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 4 shall apply.
provided
     Each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of delivery by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent of notice thereof pursuant to (or, if earlier, on the date that the Administrative Agent becomes aware of such public announcement) and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Section 6.03(e)
 
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., each in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
Arrangers
     "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit E-1
     "" means, with respect to any Person, on any date, (a) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease, and (b) in respect of any Securitization Transaction, the aggregate principal amount of obligations owed by such Person.
Attributable Indebtedness
     "" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
     "" means the period from the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 8.02
     "" means Allied Waste North America, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
AWNA
     "" means that certain Indenture dated as of December 23, 1998, among AWNA, Allied, various Subsidiaries of Allied, and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, including all amendments thereto and all supplements thereto.
AWNA Senior Notes Indenture
     "" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
     "" means the Federal Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (11 U.S.C. 101, .).
Bankruptcy Code
et
seq
     "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for
Base Rate
 
pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
     "" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
     "" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
     "" means a Committed Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
     "" means Browning-Ferris Industries, LLC (f/k/a Browning-Ferris Industries, Inc.), a Delaware limited liability company.
Browning-Ferris
     "" means the Restated Indenture dated as of September 1, 1991, between Browning-Ferris and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly Chase Bank of Texas, N.A.), as successor trustee to First City, Texas-Houston, N.A., including all amendments thereto and supplements thereto.
Browning-Ferris Indenture
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
     "" means the lawful currency of Canada.
Canadian Dollars
     "" means a Letter of Credit which is denominated in Canadian Dollars.
Canadian L/C
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any lease of (or other agreement conveying the right to use) any real or personal property by such Person that, in conformity with GAAP, is accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of such Person.
Capital Lease
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.03(g)
     "" means any agreement to provide cash management services, including treasury, depository, overdraft, credit or debit card, purchase card, electronic funds transfer and other cash management arrangements.
Cash Management Agreement
     "" means any Person that, (a) at the time it enters into a Cash Management Agreement, is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, or (b) at the time it (or its Affiliate) becomes a Lender, is a party to a Cash Management Agreement, in each case in its capacity as a party to such Cash Management Agreement.
Cash Management Bank
 
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
     "" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
     (a) (i) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) other than any Gates Entity (as hereinafter defined) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time (such right, an "option right")), directly or indirectly, of more than 25% of the equity securities of the Borrower entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Borrower ("") on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right) or (ii) any one or more of Cascade Investment, L.L.C. (""), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust (the ""), any entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by Cascade or the Trust, or any Person directly or indirectly controlling Cascade, the Trust or any such entity, or any trustee of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "") becomes the "beneficial owner", directly or indirectly, of Voting Securities of the Borrower sufficient to cause the aggregate "beneficial ownership" of Voting Securities of the Borrower by all of the Gates Entities to exceed 34% of the Voting Securities of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that the Gates Entities have the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
Voting Securities
Cascade
Trust
Gates Entities
     (b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Borrower cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both clause (ii) and clause (iii), any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
 
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
     "" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
     "" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
     "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
     "" means any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the last day of a fiscal quarter.
Computation Period
     "" means, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for any Computation Period, the sum of, without duplication, (a) Consolidated Net Income during such Computation Period, plus (b) the following, in each case to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income during such Computation Period: (i) Consolidated Interest Expense; (ii) taxes on income; (iii) amortization; (iv) depreciation; (v) environmental remediation charges associated with environmental conditions at the CountryWide Recycling and Disposal Facility as more particularly described in the Borrower's Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 8, 2008 (not to exceed $69,000,000 in the aggregate during all Computation Periods); (vi) reasonably documented costs and expenses incurred in connection with the Allied Acquisition (not to exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate through the first anniversary of the consummation of the Allied Acquisition); and (vii) reasonably documented transition costs in connection with the Allied Acquisition (not to exceed $146,000,000 in the aggregate through the first anniversary of the consummation of the Allied Acquisition or $36,000,000 in the twelve (12) month period after such first anniversary); , that, to the extent that any Acquisition has been consummated during a Computation Period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be computed on a pro forma basis in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X of the SEC or in a manner otherwise approved by the Administrative Agent for the purposes of determining the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio.
Consolidated EBITDA
provided
 
     "" means in respect of any Computation Period the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for such Computation Period to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for such Computation Period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
     "" means, with respect to any Computation Period, the gross interest expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including, (i) the amortization of debt discounts, (ii) the amortization of all fees payable in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness to the extent included in interest expense, (iii) the portion of any liabilities incurred in connection with Capital Leases allocable to interest expense and (iv) consolidated yield or discount accrued on the aggregate outstanding investment or claim held by purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) receivables of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in connection with any Securitization Transaction (regardless of the accounting treatment of such Securitization Transaction).
Consolidated Interest Expense
     "" means, for any Computation Period, the gross revenues from operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, less all operating and non-operating expenses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including taxes on income but excluding all non-cash, nonrecurring charges and all extraordinary gains or losses.
Consolidated Net Income
     "" means the consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries but excluding goodwill, franchises, licenses, patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and any other intangible assets.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
     "" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect liability of such Person, whether or not contingent, (a) with respect to any Indebtedness, lease, dividend, letter of credit or other obligation (the "primary obligations") of another Person (the "primary obligor"), including any obligation of such Person (i) to purchase, repurchase or otherwise acquire such primary obligations or any security therefor, (ii) to advance or provide funds for the payment or discharge of any such primary obligation, or to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency or any balance sheet item, level of income or financial condition of the primary obligor, (iii) to purchase property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the ability of the primary obligor to make payment of such primary obligation, or (iv) otherwise to assure or hold harmless the holder of any such primary obligation against loss in respect thereof (each a ""); (b) with respect to any Surety Instrument issued for the account of such Person or as to which such Person is otherwise liable for reimbursement of drawings or payments; or (c) to purchase any materials, supplies or other property from, or to obtain the services of, another Person if the relevant contract or other related document or obligation requires that payment for such materials, supplies or other property, or for such services, shall be made regardless of whether delivery of such materials, supplies or other property is ever made or tendered, or such services are ever performed or tendered. The amount of any Contingent Obligation shall (a) in the case of Guaranty Obligations, be deemed equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is made (subject to any limitation set forth in such guaranty) or, if not stated or if indeterminable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof, and (b) in the case of other Contingent Obligations, be equal to the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof.
Contingent Obligation
Guaranty Obligation
 
     "" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate."
Debt Rating
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate for Eurodollar Rate Loans 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
plus
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
     "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
     "" means, with respect to a Canadian Dollar amount, the amount of Dollars into which the Canadian Dollar amount would be converted, based on the applicable Exchange Rate.
Dollar Equivalent Amount
     "" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States (for the avoidance of doubt, excluding Puerto Rico).
Domestic Subsidiary
 
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under .
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii))
     "" means all written claims, however asserted, by any Governmental Authority or other Person alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law, or for release or injury to the environment.
Environmental Claims
     "" means all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
     "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
     "" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a substantial cessation of operations which are treated as such a withdrawal; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing
ERISA Event
 
of a notice of intent to terminate a Pension Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, the termination of a Multiemployer Plan under 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which might reasonably be expected to constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Base Rate
     "" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
     Where,
     "" means, for such Interest Period:
Eurodollar Base Rate
     (a) the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or another commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period.
BBA LIBOR
     (b) If the rate referenced in the preceding clause (a) is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which Dollar deposits for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or another Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for Dollar deposits at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
     "" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurodollar funding (currently referred to as "Eurodollar liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
 
     "" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
     "" means the Spot Rate of Exchange as of two Business Days preceding the Valuation Date.
Exchange Rate
     "" means each Subsidiary set forth on and each other Subsidiary that is approved from time to time as an Excluded Subsidiary by the Administrative Agent.
Excluded Subsidiary
Schedule 1.01(b)
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuers or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2005 among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and a syndicate of lenders.
Existing Credit Agreement
     "" means those standby letters of credit existing on April 26, 2007 issued under the Existing Credit Agreement and set forth on attached hereto.
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 2.03
     "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
     "" means (i) the letter agreement, dated March 19, 2007, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, and (ii) the letter agreement, dated March 19, 2007, between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
     "" means any Cash Management Agreement that is entered into by and between any Loan Party and any Cash Management Bank.
Guaranteed Cash Management Agreement
     "" means any Swap Contract permitted under that is entered into by and between any Loan Party and any Hedge Bank.
Guaranteed Hedge Agreement
Article VII
     "" means, collectively, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the L/C Issuers, the Hedge Banks, the Cash Management Banks and each co-agent or sub-agent appointed by the Administrative Agent from time to time pursuant to .
Guaranteed Parties
Section 9.05
     "" means, collectively, each Material Subsidiary, including (effective as of the day after the Allied Acquisition Date) Allied and each of its Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries.
Guarantors
     "" means the Guaranty made by the Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Guaranteed Parties, substantially in the form of , as supplemented from time to time by the execution and delivery of a Guaranty Joinder Agreement pursuant to .
Guaranty
Exhibit G
Section 6.13
 
     "" means each Guaranty Joinder Agreement, substantially in the form thereof attached to the Guaranty, executed and delivered by a Guarantor to the Administrative Agent pursuant to .
Guaranty Joinder Agreement
Section 6.13
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of Contingent Obligation.
Guaranty Obligation
     "" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
     "" means any Person that (a) at the time it enters into a Swap Contract permitted under , is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, or (b) at the time it (or its Affiliate) becomes a Lender, is a party to a Swap Contract, in each case in its capacity as a party to such Swap Contract.
Hedge Bank
Article VII
     "" means, for any Person, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money; (b) all obligations issued, undertaken or assumed by such Person as the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables entered into in the ordinary course of business on ordinary terms); (c) all reimbursement or payment obligations of such Person with respect to Surety Instruments; (d) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments; (e) all indebtedness of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, or incurred as financing, in either case with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property); (f) all obligations of such Person with respect to Capital Leases; (g) Attributable Indebtedness; (h) all indebtedness of the types referred to in through above secured by (or for which the holder of such indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien upon or in property (including accounts and contracts rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Indebtedness, provided that the amount of any such Indebtedness shall be deemed to be the lesser of the face principal amount thereof and the fair market value of the property subject to such Lien; and (i) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person in respect of Indebtedness of the types described above; that Indebtedness shall not include obligations arising out of the endorsement of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. For all purposes of this Agreement, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include all Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer (other than any such Indebtedness which is expressly non-recourse to such Person).
Indebtedness
clauses (a)
(g)
provided
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
 
     "" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any case, action or proceeding with respect to such Person before any court or other Governmental Authority relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, dissolution, winding-up or relief of debtors or (b) any general assignment for the benefit of creditors, composition, marshalling of assets for creditors, or other similar arrangement in respect of its creditors generally or any substantial portion of its creditors; in each case undertaken under any U.S. Federal, state or foreign law, including the Bankruptcy Code.
Insolvency Proceeding
     "" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
     "" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one week (if offered by all Lenders) or one, two, three or six months (or nine or twelve months, if offered by all Lenders) thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
     (i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
     (ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
     (iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the scheduled Maturity Date.
     "" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
     "" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by an L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of such L/C Issuer and relating to any such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
     "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial determinations, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all administrative orders,
Laws
 
licenses and authorizations of any Governmental Authority applicable to Borrower and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, applicable to Borrower, any Lender or the Administrative Agent.
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
L/C Advance
     "" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof (including any reinstatement pursuant to ).
L/C Credit Extension
Section 2.03(b)(iv)
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of one or more Letters of Credit hereunder, together with (i) any replacement letter of credit issuer arising under and (ii) any other Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender which has agreed in writing to become an "L/C Issuer" hereunder.
L/C Issuer
Section 9.06
     "" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate of the Dollar amount and, as applicable, the Dollar Equivalent Amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of the Dollar amount and, as applicable, the Dollar Equivalent Amount of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.06
outstanding
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
     "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
     "" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder (including any Canadian L/C issued pursuant to ) and shall include each Existing Letter of Credit.
Letter of Credit
Section 2.03(a)(iv)
     "" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the applicable L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
     "" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
 
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.03(i)
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), or other preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, the interest of a lessor under a Capital Lease, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, but not including the interest of a lessor under an operating lease).
Lien
     "" means an extension of credit in Dollars by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
     "" means this Agreement, each Note, the Guaranty (including any Guaranty Joinder Agreement), each Issuer Document, and the Fee Letters.
Loan Documents
     "" means, collectively, the Borrower and each Guarantor; that, with respect to the Specified Credit Agreement Representations on the Allied Acquisition Date and , (i) Allied and each of its Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be Loan Parties whether or not then Guarantors and (ii) all representations that refer to any Loan Document to which any Loan Party is a party shall include the execution and delivery of a Guaranty Joinder Agreement in escrow by Allied and each of its Subsidiaries that are Material Subsidiaries on the Allied Acquisition Date and the effectiveness thereof on the day after the Allied Acquisition Date.
Loan Parties
provided
Section 4.02
     "" means "margin stock" as such term is defined in Regulation T, U or X of the FRB.
Margin Stock
     "" means a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties, assets or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means Indebtedness, Attributable Indebtedness, Contingent Obligations and obligations under Swap Contracts of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Securitization Transaction, in an aggregate amount (or, in the case of a Swap Contract, having a Swap Termination Value), for all such Indebtedness, Attributable Indebtedness, Contingent Obligations, obligations under Swap Contracts and obligations in respect of Securitization Transactions, but without duplication, equal to $100,000,000 or more.
Material Financial Obligation
     "" means, as of any date of determination (and, as of the Allied Acquisition Date, giving effect to the Allied Acquisition), each direct or indirect Domestic Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) that (a) has total assets (including Equity Interests in other Subsidiaries) equal to or greater than 5% of consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated as of the end of the most recent fiscal period for which financial statements are available), or has revenues equal to or greater than 5% of the consolidated total revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated for the most recent four-fiscal quarter period for which financial statements are available), (b) is designated by the Borrower as a Material Subsidiary, or (c) guarantees any Senior Note Indebtedness or
Material Subsidiary
 
Indebtedness issued pursuant to the Allied Convertible Debt Indenture. The Borrower shall from time to time promptly (and in any event within 30 days after the end of each fiscal period for which financial statements are available) designate one or more of its Subsidiaries as Material Subsidiaries to the extent necessary to cause such term to include Subsidiaries of the Borrower that, together with the Borrower and each other Material Subsidiary, have assets equal to not less than 98% of consolidated total assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated as of the end of the most recent fiscal period for which financial statements are available but excluding the assets of each Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, each Securitization Subsidiary and any Republic Insurance Entity from such calculation) and revenues of not less than 98% of the consolidated total revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (calculated for the most recent four-fiscal quarter period for which financial statements are available but excluding the revenues of each Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, each Securitization Subsidiary and any Republic Insurance Entity from such calculation). For the avoidance of doubt, the 98% calculation in the immediately preceding sentence shall include the Borrower's assets and revenues only to the extent they do not duplicate the assets and revenues of its Subsidiaries and, without limitation of the foregoing, the Borrower's Equity Interests in its Subsidiaries shall not be included in valuing the assets of the Borrower.
     "" means April 26, 2012.
Maturity Date
     "" means that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 22, 2008, among the Borrower, RS Merger Wedge, Inc. and Allied (including all schedules and exhibits thereto).
Merger Agreement
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means a "multiemployer plan", within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means the revolving credit facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement dated as of September 18, 2008, among the Borrower, Bank of America, as Administrative Agent and the lenders party thereto.
New Credit Facility
     "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit C
     "" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, Letter of Credit, Guaranteed Cash Management Agreement or Guaranteed Hedge Agreement, in each case whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
 
     "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
     "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
     "" means (i) with respect to Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (ii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions under ERISA.
PBGC
     "" means a pension plan (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), subject to Title IV of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability.
Pension Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Permitted Liens
Section 7.02
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means an employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, with respect to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability, and includes any Pension Plan.
Plan
     "" means, with respect to any Acquired Plan, the first date on which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate may have any liability with respect to such Acquired Plan.
Plan Acquisition Date
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
 
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Public Lender
Section 6.02
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
     "" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed in the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
     "" has the meaning specified in the Merger Agreement.
Regulatory Divestiture
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, counsel and attorneys-in-fact of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means, any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA or the regulations thereunder, other than any such event for which the 30-day notice requirement under ERISA has been waived in regulations issued by the PBGC.
Reportable Event
     "" means that certain Indenture dated as of March 30, 2001 between the Borrower and The Bank of New York (now known as The Bank of New York Mellon), as Trustee, including all amendments thereto and supplements thereto.
Republic Indenture
     "" means Bom Ambiente, Ltd., a Cayman Islands exempted company, Republic Services Risk Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation, RSG Cayman Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and each other Subsidiary formed in connection with any captive insurance program that, following the Allied Acquisition Date, is approved from time to time as a Republic Insurance Entity by the Administrative Agent.
Republic Insurance Entity
     "" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
     "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
     "" means, as to any Person, any law (statutory or common), treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an arbitrator or of a Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Requirement of Law
 
     "" means the chief executive officer, the president or any vice president of a Loan Party, or any other officer having substantially the same authority and responsibility; or, with respect to financial matters, the chief financial officer, the vice president-finance, the treasurer or any assistant treasurer of a Loan Party, or any other officer having substantially the same authority and responsibility; or, with respect to corporate offices and authority, the secretary or assistant secretary of a Loan Party or any other officer having the same authority and responsibility. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
     "" means that amount of cash of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries held by or pledged to trustees for industrial revenue bonds and tax-exempt financings that is included on the balance sheet of the Borrower, at any date of determination, in the line item "Restricted Cash."
Restricted Cash
     "" means, as to any Person, any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of such Person, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to such Person's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
     "" means, collectively, Browning-Ferris Industries Energy Systems of Boston, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Services Group, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Trans River (LP), Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Energy Systems of Plymouth, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries Europe, Inc., Browning-Ferris Industries of Asia Pacific, Inc., and Consolidated Processing, Inc.
RMI Subsidiaries
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" means the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes Oxley
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sarbanes Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Securities Laws
     "" means (a) after the Allied Acquisition Date, Allied Receivables Funding Incorporated or (b) any special purpose, bankruptcy-remote Subsidiary of the Borrower that purchases accounts receivable, lease receivables or other payment obligations generated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with any extension, renewal or refinancing of the Allied Securitization Program.
Securitization Subsidiary
 
     "" means any sale, assignment or other transfer by the Borrower or any Subsidiary (including, after the Allied Acquisition Date, the Allied Securitization Program and any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof) of accounts receivable, lease receivables or other payment obligations owing to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any interest in any of the foregoing, together in each case with any collections and other proceeds thereof, any collection or deposit accounts related thereto, and any collateral, guaranties or other property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting, securing or otherwise relating to any such receivables or other payment obligations.
Securitization Transaction
     "" means any Indebtedness outstanding under any of the Senior Note Indentures.
Senior Note Indebtedness
     "" means, collectively, the Republic Indenture, the AWNA Senior Notes Indenture and the Browning-Ferris Indenture.
Senior Note Indentures
     "" means, when used with respect to any Person, that at the time of determination:
Solvent
     (a) the fair value of its assets (both at fair valuation and at present fair saleable value on an orderly basis) is in excess of the total amount of its liabilities, including Contingent Obligations; and
     (b) it is then able and expects to be able to pay its debts as they mature; and
     (c) it has capital sufficient to carry on its business as conducted and as proposed to be conducted.
     "" means the representations and warranties set forth in , (limited, in the case of material Contractual Obligations in clause (b), to the Allied Indentures and the Allied Securitization Program), , , , and .
Specified Credit Agreement Representations
Sections 5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04
5.08
5.13
5.18
     "" means the representations and warranties made by Allied to the Borrower in the Merger Agreement, in each case without giving effect to any consent or waiver by any party to the Merger Agreement to any exception thereto or deviation therefrom which is material to the interests of the Lenders (as determined by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), but only to the extent that the Borrower has the right to terminate its obligations (other than indemnity and other obligations expressed to survive any termination of the Merger Agreement) under the Merger Agreement or refuse to close the Allied Acquisition as a result of a breach of such representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement.
Specified Merger Agreement Representations
     "" means, in determining the Dollar Equivalent Amount of a specified Canadian Dollar amount as of any date, the spot exchange rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with its usual procedures for the purchase by the Administrative Agent of Dollars with Canadian Dollars at approximately 10:00 A.M. on the Business Day that is two (2) Business Days prior to such date.
Spot Rate of Exchange
 
     "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
     "" means all letters of credit (including standby and commercial), banker's acceptances, bank guaranties, shipside bonds, surety bonds and similar instruments.
Surety Instruments
     "" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
     "" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
     "" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.04
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.04(a)
     "" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.04(b)
Exhibit B
 
     "" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $100,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
     "" means Citibank, N.A. in its capacity as syndication agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor syndication agent.
Syndication Agent
     "" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
     "" means, at any time, the sum (determined on a consolidated basis and without duplication) of all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, excluding contingent obligations with respect to Surety Instruments (other than any letter of credit issued for the account of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to support Indebtedness of a Person other than the Borrower or any Subsidiary).
Total Debt
     "" means in respect of any Computation Period the ratio of (a) Total Debt Restricted Cash, as at the end of such Computation Period, to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for such Computation Period.
Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
minus
     "" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
     "" means, with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
     "" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
     "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.03(c)(i)
     "" means any of (i) the date of any Credit Extension, (ii) the date of any L/C Borrowing, and (iii) any other date when there are outstanding Canadian L/Cs that the Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent Amount of Canadian L/Cs.
Valuation Date
     "" means any Subsidiary in which (other than directors' qualifying shares required by law) 100% of the capital stock, membership interests or other
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
 
Equity Interests of each class having ordinary voting power, and 100% of the capital stock, membership interests or other Equity Interests of every other class, in each case, at the time as of which any determination is being made, is owned, beneficially and of record, by the Borrower, or by one or more of the other Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, or both.
     . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
     (a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
     (b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
     (c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
     . (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein and without giving effect to any change in GAAP which would require the Borrower to "mark-for-market" its obligations under Swap Contracts (unless (i) the Borrower and the Required Lenders agree to
1.03 Accounting Terms
Generally
except
 
give effect to such changes or (ii) the Borrower has recognized a gain or loss as a result of such Swap Contract).
     (b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
     . Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding
     . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.05 Times of Day
     . Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
1.06 Letter of Credit Amounts
provided
however
     . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and
2.01 Committed Loans
Committed Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
 
reborrow under this Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
Section 2.01.
     .
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
     (a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.03(c)
2.04(c)
     (b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 3:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
 
provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
provided
however
first
second
     (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
     (e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, unless the Administrative Agent otherwise consents, there shall not be more than fifteen Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
     .
2.03 Letters of Credit
     (a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
     (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) each L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings properly drawn under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (y) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments and (z) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed. All Existing Letters of Credit shall be
Section 2.03
provided
plus
plus
 
deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof. The Borrower agrees to promptly notify the Administrative Agent of the designation of any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender as an L/C Issuer.
     (ii) No L/C Issuer shall issue any Letter of Credit, if:
     (A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than eighteen months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
Section 2.03(b)(iii)
     (B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
     (iii) No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
     (A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain such L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to such L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over such L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that such L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which such L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon such L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which such L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it (it being understood that the applicable L/C Issuer shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any of the foregoing events or circumstances);
     (B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more applicable policies of such L/C Issuer;
     (C) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars, or, only in the case of Bank of America as L/C Issuer, in a currency other than Dollars or Canadian Dollars; or
     (D) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder.
     (iv) On the terms and conditions set forth herein any L/C Issuer may issue upon request and for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) a standby Canadian L/C. For purposes of determining L/C Obligations, any Canadian L/C shall be recorded in the Administrative Agent's account in Dollars based on the Dollar Equivalent Amount on the date of issuance of such Canadian L/C; , , that the
provided
however
 
Administrative Agent shall determine the Dollar Equivalent Amount of any Canadian L/C on the Valuation Date for the purpose of determining L/C Obligations. Any draw on a Canadian L/C shall be repaid in Canadian Dollars in an amount equal to the amount of the draw in Canadian Dollars. If at any time there is a drawing under a Canadian L/C and the Borrower shall not promptly reimburse such drawing as provided in , the Borrower shall be obligated to immediately repay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders an amount in Dollars equal to the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the Canadian Dollars paid by the applicable L/C Issuer to the beneficiary of such Canadian L/C on the date of such drawing.
Section 2.3(c)
     (v) No L/C Issuer shall amend any Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
     (vi) No L/C Issuer shall be under any obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
     (vii) Each L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and each L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by such L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included each L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to each L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
     (b) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit; Auto-Reinstatement Letters of Credit
     (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the applicable L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (or through such other procedures as may otherwise be approved by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent, including electronic communications in accordance with ). Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as such L/C Issuer may agree in its sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary
subsection 10.02(b)
 
in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (G) the purpose and nature of the requested Letter of Credit; and (H) such other matters as the applicable L/C Issuer may reasonably require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the applicable L/C Issuer may reasonably require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as such L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
     (ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, such L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the applicable L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with such L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the applicable L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
     (iii) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit such L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that such L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) such L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of clause (ii) or (iii) of
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
Section
 
or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
2.03(a)
Section 4.02
     (iv) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, an L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that permits the automatic reinstatement of all or a portion of the stated amount thereof after any drawing thereunder (each, an ""). Unless otherwise directed by such L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to such L/C Issuer to permit such reinstatement. Once an Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit has been issued, except as provided in the following sentence, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the applicable L/C Issuer to reinstate all or a portion of the stated amount thereof in accordance with the provisions of such Letter of Credit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit permits an L/C Issuer to decline to reinstate all or any portion of the stated amount thereof after a drawing thereunder by giving notice of such non-reinstatement within a specified number of days after such drawing (the ""), such L/C Issuer shall not permit such reinstatement if it has received a notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Reinstatement Deadline (A) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such reinstatement or (B) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied or that such reinstatement would violate the proviso to the first sentence of (treating such reinstatement as an L/C Credit Extension for purposes of this clause) and, in each case, directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such reinstatement.
Auto-Reinstatement Letter of Credit
Non-Reinstatement Deadline
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(a)(i)
     (v) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the applicable L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
     (c) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
     (i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof. Not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing; , that if any payment is made by an L/C Issuer after 1:00 p.m. on an Honor Date, such reimbursement shall occur not later than 1:00 p.m. on the first Business Day occurring after such Honor Date. If the Borrower fails to so reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative
Honor Date
provided
 
Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in Dollars to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount (or, in the case of any Unreimbursed Amount in respect of any Canadian L/C, in an amount equal to the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such Unreimbursed Amount), without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice). Any notice given by the applicable L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(i)
provided
     (ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer at the Administrative Agent's Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 3:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the applicable L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
     (iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.02
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
Section 2.03
     (iv) Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(c)
     (v) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not
Section 2.03(c)
 
similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Committed Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by such L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
provided
however
Section 2.03(c)
Section 4.02
     (vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , such L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by such L/C Issuer in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the applicable L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.03(c)(ii)
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after the applicable L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of such L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's L/C Advance was outstanding) in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.03(c)
     (ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by such L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.03(c)(i)
Section 10.05
     (e) . The obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
 
     (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
     (ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the applicable L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
     (iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
     (iv) any payment by the applicable L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
     (v) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower.
     The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will promptly notify the applicable L/C Issuer. The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the applicable L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
     (f) . Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the applicable L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or
Role of L/C Issuer
 
transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of such L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (v) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against such L/C Issuer, and such L/C Issuer may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves were caused by such L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or such L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the applicable L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and such L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
provided
however
Section 2.03(e)
provided
however
     (g) . Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (i) if the applicable L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations. and set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this , and , "" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the applicable L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the applicable L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuers and the Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
Cash Collateral
Sections 2.05
8.02(c)
Section 2.03
Section 2.05
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collateralize
     (h) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), the rules of the ISP shall apply to each Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
     (i) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage a Letter of Credit fee (the "Letter of Credit Fee") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit, or in the case of a Canadian L/C the Dollar Equivalent Amount of such daily amount available to be drawn under such Canadian L/C.
Letter of Credit Fees
times
 
For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears and (ii) due and payable on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Section 1.06
     (j) . The Borrower shall pay directly to each L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer in an amount to be determined by the Borrower and the applicable L/C Issuer. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable in full by the Borrower to the applicable L/C Issuers, with respect to each Letter of Credit, quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, unless otherwise agreed with the applicable L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall pay directly to each L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of such L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 1.06
     (k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
     (l) . For so long as any Letter of Credit issued by an L/C Issuer other than Bank of America is outstanding, such L/C Issuer shall deliver to the Administrative Agent on the last Business Day of each calendar month, and on each date that an L/C Credit Extension occurs with respect to any such Letter of Credit, a report in the form of hereto, appropriately completed with the information for every outstanding Letter of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer. The Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Lenders on a monthly basis a report of all outstanding Letters of Credit.
Reporting of Letter of Credit Information
Exhibit H
     .
2.04 Swing Line Loans
     (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding
The Swing Line
Section 2.04
Swing Line Loan
 
Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be deemed a Base Rate Loan notwithstanding anything to the contrary in regarding the interest rate applicable to such Swing Line Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.04
Section 2.05
Section 2.04
Section 2.08(a)(iii)
     (b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 3:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $1,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 3:30 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the first proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 4:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower at its office by crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of the Swing Line Lender in immediately available funds.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.04(a)
Article IV
     (c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
     (i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request
 
shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 3:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
     (ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
     (iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(i)
     (iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.02
 
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Lender's risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
     (ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
     (e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.04
     (f) . The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
     .
2.05 Prepayments
     (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding; that if any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans pursuant to results in the aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Loans not being an integral multiple of $100,000, then the next prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in an amount that will cause the aggregate principal amount of all Base Rate Loans to be in an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100,000. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be repaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of
provided
provided
Section 2.03(c)(i)
 
such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
Section 3.05
     (b) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000 or an integral multiple thereof. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
     (c) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.
provided
however
Section 2.05(c)
     . The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction (except that if no Loans are outstanding hereunder and no Letters of Credit are issued and outstanding hereunder or the effectiveness of a new credit facility for the Borrower is conditioned on the termination of this Agreement, any notice terminating the Aggregate Commitments may be received on the date of termination), (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments; that the Borrower may terminate the Aggregate Commitments if all Loans have been paid in full, the Borrower has Cash Collateralized, or provided other support acceptable to the applicable L/C Issuer(s) for, all outstanding Letters of Credit, and there are no outstanding L/C Borrowings. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.06 Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
provided
 
     .
2.07 Repayment of Loans
     (a) The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans outstanding on such date.
     (b) The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the fourth Business Day following the giving of notice by the Swing Line Lender to the Borrower and (ii) the Maturity Date.
     .
2.08 Interest
     (a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; and (iii) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate or such other rate as may be agreed to from time to time by the Borrower and the Swing Line Lender; that after any purchase by the Lenders of a participation in any Swing Line Loan, the rate of interest on such Swing Line Loan shall not be less than the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
plus
plus
plus
provided
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (after giving affect to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after
 
judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
     . In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
2.09 Fees
Section 2.03
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Maturity Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
     (b) .
Other Fees
     (i) The Borrower shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
     (ii) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
     . All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.10 Computation of Interest and Fees
provided
Section 2.12(a)
     .
2.11 Evidence of Debt
     (a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary
 
course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     (b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
     .
2.12 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
     (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 3:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by )
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the applicable Borrowing. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
     (ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or any L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to it to the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
     A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
     (c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
 
     (d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
     (e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
     . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.13 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
     (i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
     The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
     .
2.14 Increase in Commitments
     (a) . Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $500,000,000; that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $100,000,000, (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of five such requests, (iii) any such increased or additional Commitment shall be obtained from one or more existing Lenders (it being understood that no existing Lender shall be required to increase its Commitment) and/or other Persons that qualify as Eligible Assignees and (iv) no increase in the Aggregate Commitments shall increase the Swing Line Sublimit.
Request for Increase
provided
     (b) . Any Person that is to become a Lender pursuant to this shall execute and deliver a joinder agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Additional Lenders
Section 2.14
     (c) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Increase Effective Date and the Commitments and Applicable Percentages of the Lenders after giving effect thereto.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
     (d) . As a condition precedent to such increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Loan Parties approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsection (a) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clause (a) of , and (B) no Default exists. The Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Article V
Section 2.14
Section 5.11
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
     (e) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
10.01
 
     .
3.01 Taxes
     (a) (i) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Taxes. If, however, applicable Laws require the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to withhold or deduct any Tax, such Tax shall be withheld or deducted in accordance with such Laws as determined by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to subsection (e) below.
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
     (ii) If the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be required by the Code to withhold or deduct any Taxes, including both United States Federal backup withholding and withholding taxes, from any payment, then (A) the Administrative Agent shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by the Administrative Agent to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to subsection (e) below, (B) the Administrative Agent shall timely pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with the Code, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, the sum payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, the applicable Lender or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction been made.
     (b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
     (c) .
Tax Indemnifications
     (i) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, the Borrower shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) withheld or deducted by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent or paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The Borrower shall also, and does hereby indemnify the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefore, for any amount which a Lender or
 
an L/C Issuer for any reason fails to pay indefeasibly to the Administrative Agent as required by clause (ii) of this subsection. A certificate as to the amount of any such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or an L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or an L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
     (ii) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, each Lender and each L/C Issuer shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 30 days after demand therefore, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Borrower or the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against the Borrower or the Administrative Agent by any Governmental Authority as a result of the failure by such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (e). Each Lender and each L/C Issuer hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due the Administrative Agent under this clause (ii). The agreements in this clause (ii) shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender or an L/C Issuer, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
     (d) . Upon request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by the Borrower or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Authority as provided in this , the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by Laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
Evidence of Payments
Section 3.01
     (e) .
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
     (i) Each Lender and each L/C Issuer shall deliver to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable Laws or when reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Laws or by the taxing authorities of any jurisdiction and such other reasonably requested information as will permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine (A) whether or not payments made hereunder or under any other Loan Document are subject to Taxes, (B) if applicable, the required rate of withholding or deduction, and (C) such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable Taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender or such L/C Issuer by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such
 
Lender's or such L/C Issuer's status for withholding tax purposes in the applicable jurisdiction.
     (ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States:
     (A) Any Lender or any L/C Issuer that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable Laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements; and
     (B) Each Foreign Lender, and each L/C Issuer that is a Foreign Lender, that is entitled under the Code or any applicable treaty to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender or such L/C Issuer becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender or such L/C Issuer is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (I) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
     (II) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
     (III) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY and all required supporting documentation,
     (IV) in the case of a Foreign Lender or L/C Issuer claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender or such L/C Issuer is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
     (V) executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable Laws as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable Laws to permit the
 
Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made;
     (iii) Each Lender and each L/C Issuer shall promptly (A) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any jurisdiction that the Borrower or the Administrative Agent make any withholding or deduction for Taxes from amounts payable to such Lender or such L/C Issuer.
     (f) . Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender or an L/C Issuer, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender or any L/C Issuer, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from the funds paid for the account of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be. If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person or to file for, or otherwise pursue on behalf of, the Borrower any refund of Taxes.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
     (g) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this , (i) if any Lender fails to notify the Borrower of any event or circumstance which will entitle such Lender to compensation pursuant to this within 60 days after such Lender obtains knowledge of such event or circumstance, then such Lender shall not be entitled to compensation from the Borrower for any amount arising prior to the date which is 60 days before the date on which such Lender notifies the Borrower of such event or circumstance; and (ii) the Borrower shall not be required to pay an additional amount to, or to indemnify, any Lender pursuant to this to the extent that (x) the obligation to withhold or pay such amount existed on the Initial Date (as defined below) or (y) the obligation to withhold or pay such amount would not have arisen but for the failure of such Lender to comply with the provisions of subsection (e) above. For purposes of clause (ii) of the foregoing sentence "Initial Date" means (A) in the case of any Lender that is a signatory hereto, the date of this Agreement, (B) in the case of any Person which subsequently becomes a Lender hereunder, the date of the applicable Assignment and
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
Section 3.01
 
Assumption, and (C) in the case of any Participant, the date on which it becomes a Participant; , that the foregoing limitation shall not impair any availability of the indemnity provision above to the Administrative Agent or any L/C Issuer.
provided
     . If any Lender reasonably determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the Borrower's option, prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality
     . If for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof, (a) the Required Lenders or the Administrative Agent determines that (i) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (ii) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (b) the Administrative Agent determines that the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
     .
3.04 Increased Costs
     (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate) or any L/C Issuer;
 
     (ii) subject any Lender or any L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or such L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer); or
Section 3.01
     (iii) impose on any Lender or any L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or such L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) . If any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or such L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitment of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
     (c) . A certificate of a Lender or such L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section, together with a brief explanation for the increased costs and the basis for the calculation thereof, and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
     (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or such L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that
Delay in Requests
provided
 
the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than 60 days prior to the date that such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 60-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
     . Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
     (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay or borrow any Loan or continue or convert any Eurodollar Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
     (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
     For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
     .
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
     (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
 
     (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
     . All obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
3.07 Survival
Article III
     . The obligation of each L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
     (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
     (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
     (ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
     (iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party;
     (iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (v) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (A) stating that the representations and warranties contained in are true and correct on and as of such date, as though made on and as of such date; (B) stating there is no action, suit, investigation or proceeding pending or threatened in any court or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority that purports (i) to materially and adversely affect the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, or (ii) to affect any transaction contemplated hereby or the ability of
Article V
 
the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and (C) either (i) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and the validity against the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (ii) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
     (vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (B) the current Debt Ratings;
     (vii) evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement has been or concurrently with the Closing Date is being terminated and all amounts thereunder shall have been paid; and
     (viii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, the applicable L/C Issuers, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
     (b) a favorable opinion of Akerman Senterfitt & Eidson, P.A., counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender in the form attached hereto as .
Exhibit F
     (c) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
     (d) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required hereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
     . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Credit Extensions
     (a) The representations and warranties of (i) the Borrower contained in (subject, in the case of the representations and warranties made on the Allied Acquisition Date,
Article V
 
to the limitation set forth in the last sentence of this ), and (ii) each Loan Party contained in each other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished by any Loan Party at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct in all material respects (except, if a qualifier relating to materiality, Material Adverse Effect, Initial Funding Date Material Adverse Effect or a similar concept applies, such representation or warranty shall be required to be true and correct in all respects) on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, (i) the representations and warranties relating to Allied and its Subsidiaries made on the Allied Acquisition Date under shall be limited to (x) the Specified Credit Agreement Representations and (y) the Specified Merger Agreement Representations (which are incorporated herein by reference), and (ii) the references to "Material Adverse Effect" in the representations made by the Borrower in clause (c) of and in clause (b) of on the Allied Acquisition Date shall be deemed to be a reference to "Allied Acquisition Date Material Adverse Effect".
Section 4.02(a)
Section 4.02(a)
Section 5.11(a)
Section 6.01
Article V
Section 5.05
Section 5.11
     (b) No Default shall exist or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
     (c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the applicable L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
     Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
     . The Borrower and each of its Material Subsidiaries:
5.01 Corporate Existence and Power
     (a) is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization;
     (b) has the power and authority and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals (i) to own its assets and to carry on its business and (ii) to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party;
 
     (c) is duly qualified to do business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification; and
     (d) is in compliance with all Requirements of Law;
except, in each case referred to in , or , to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
subclause (b)(i)
clause (c)
clause (d)
     . The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not and will not:
5.02 Corporate Authorization; No Contravention
     (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents;
     (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, any document evidencing any material Contractual Obligation to which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries is a party or any order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority to which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or any of its or their property is subject; or
     (c) violate any Requirement of Law.
     . No approval, consent, exemption, authorization or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority (other than any of the foregoing which has been obtained or made and is in full force and effect) is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.03 Governmental Authorization
     . This Agreement and each other Loan Document constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of each Loan Party, to the extent such Person is a party thereto, enforceable against such Person in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability.
5.04 Binding Effect
     . There are no actions, suits, proceedings, claims or disputes pending or, to the best knowledge of the Borrower, threatened, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, against the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective properties (a) which purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (b) as to which there exists a reasonable likelihood of an adverse determination, which determination would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Borrower to pay and perform the Obligations, or (c) pertaining to the Allied Acquisition which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No injunction, writ, temporary restraining order or other order of any nature has been issued by any court or other Governmental Authority purporting to enjoin or restrain the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or directing that the transactions provided for herein or therein not be consummated as herein or therein provided.
5.05 Litigation
 
     . No Default exists or would result from the incurring of any Obligations by any Loan Party. As of the Allied Acquisition Date, neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation in any respect which, individually or together with all such defaults, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.06 No Default
     . Except as specifically disclosed in :
5.07 ERISA Compliance
Schedule 5.07
     (a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law (or, in the case of an Acquired Plan, can be brought into such compliance without any material fine, penalty or other liability). Except for Acquired Plans with respect to which the failure to have received a qualification letter would not result in any material fine, penalty or other liability, each Plan which is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS (or will be submitted for a determination letter within the applicable remedial amendment period), and to the best knowledge of the Borrower, nothing has occurred which would cause the loss of such qualification. The Borrower and each ERISA Affiliate has made all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code (except for contributions to Acquired Plans not made prior to the respective Plan Acquisition Dates and which do not in the aggregate exceed $1,000,000 for any Acquired Plan), and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan.
     (b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of Borrower, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
     (c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability under Title IV of ERISA to the Borrower or any Subsidiary in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; (ii) no contribution failure has occurred with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA; (iii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iv) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (v) to the best knowledge of the Borrower, neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Section 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; and (vi) neither the Borrower nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
     . The proceeds of the Loans will be used solely for the purposes set forth in and permitted by and Neither the
5.08 Use of Proceeds; Margin Regulations
Section 6.12
Section 7.08.
 
Borrower nor any Subsidiary is generally engaged in the business of purchasing or selling Margin Stock or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
     . The Borrower and each Subsidiary have good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of their respective businesses, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. As of the Allied Acquisition Date, the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) is subject to no Liens, other than Permitted Liens.
5.09 Title to Properties
     . The Borrower and its Material Subsidiaries have filed all Federal and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Borrower or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10 Taxes
     .
5.11 Financial Condition
     (a) The Audited Financial Statements:
     (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the periods covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein;
     (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the results of operations for the periods covered thereby; and
     (iii) show all material indebtedness and other liabilities, absolute or contingent, of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof, including liabilities for taxes and material Contingent Obligations.
     (b) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . The Borrower conducts in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and existing Environmental Claims on its business, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Borrower has reasonably concluded that, except as specifically disclosed in , such Environmental Laws and Environmental Claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.12 Environmental Matters
Schedule 5.12
     . None of the Borrower, any Person controlling the Borrower, or any Subsidiary is an "Investment Company" within the meaning of the Investment Company
5.13 Regulated Entities
 
Act of 1940. The Borrower is not subject to any Federal or state statute or regulation limiting its ability to incur Indebtedness.
     . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to or bound by any Contractual Obligation, or subject to any restriction in any Organization Document or any Requirement of Law, which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.14 No Burdensome Restrictions
     . The Borrower or its Subsidiaries own or are licensed or otherwise have the right to use all of the material patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, contractual franchises, authorizations and other rights that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person, except to the extent failure to own, license or otherwise have the right to use any such item, or any such conflict, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the best knowledge of the Borrower, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and which is material to the business or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, infringes upon any rights held by any other Person (excluding infringements which could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect).
5.15 Copyrights, Patents, Trademarks and Licenses, Etc
     . As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has no Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in of and has no equity investments in any other corporation or entity other than those specifically disclosed in of . The Material Subsidiaries as of the Allied Acquisition Date are identified in of the updated delivered on the Allied Acquisition Date.
5.16 Subsidiaries
part (a)
Schedule 5.16
part (b)
Schedule 5.16
part (a)
Schedule 5.16
     . The properties (except to the extent such property, individually or in the aggregate, is not material to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies (or are self-insured) in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are customarily carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in localities where the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates.
5.17 Insurance
     . The Borrower and the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including, on and after the Allied Acquisition Date, Allied and its Subsidiaries), taken as a whole, are Solvent after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents.
5.18 Solvency
     . The representations and warranties made by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the Loan Documents as of the date such representations and warranties are made or deemed made, and the statements contained in any exhibit, report, statement or certificate furnished by or on behalf of any Loan Party or any Subsidiary in connection with the Loan Documents, taken as a whole, do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit any material fact necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading in any material respect as of the time when made or delivered.
5.19 Full Disclosure
 
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, unless the Required Lenders waive compliance in writing:
     . The Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, with sufficient copies for each Lender:
6.01 Financial Statements
     (a) as soon as available, but not later than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such year and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such year (together with consolidating notes with respect to the Excluded Subsidiaries and other applicable consolidating information), setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, such consolidated financial statements to be accompanied by a report of Ernst & Young LLP or another nationally recognized Registered Public Accounting Firm (the ""), which report shall be prepared in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit; provided that the reports delivered pursuant to this Section shall not be qualified or limited because of a restricted or limited examination by the Independent Auditor of any material portion of the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's records; and
Independent Auditor
     (b) as soon as available, but not later than 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year (commencing with the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2007), a copy of the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the period commencing on the first day and ending on the last day of such quarter (together with consolidating notes with respect to the Excluded Subsidiaries and other applicable consolidating information), and certified by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting, in accordance with GAAP (subject to the absence of footnotes and to ordinary, good faith year-end audit adjustments), the financial position and the results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of such date and for such period.
     . The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent, with sufficient copies for each Lender:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
     (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a Compliance Certificate executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower;
subsections 6.01(a)
(b)
     (b) promptly after their becoming available, copies of all financial statements and reports that the Borrower sends to its shareholders, and copies of all financial statements and
 
regular, periodic or special reports (including Forms 10K, 10Q and 8K) that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may make to, or file with, the SEC; and
     (c) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any Lender, may from time to time reasonably request.
     Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the earlier of (i) the date on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; and (ii) the date on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); provided that: (i) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent (with sufficient copies for each Lender). Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
Schedule 10.02
i.e.
Section 6.02(a)
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ; (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07)
 
a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
     . The Borrower shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
     (a) of the occurrence of any Default known to the Borrower;
     (b) of any matter that has resulted or is reasonably expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including:
     (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
     (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or
     (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
     (c) of the occurrence of any of the following events known to the Borrower which affect the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate, and deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender a copy of any notice with respect to such event that is filed with a Governmental Authority and any notice delivered by a Governmental Authority to the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate with respect to such event:
     (i) an ERISA Event;
     (ii) a contribution failure with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA;
     (iii) a material increase in the Unfunded Pension Liability of any Pension Plan;
     (iv) the adoption of, or the commencement of contributions to, any Pension Plan by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate; or
     (v) the adoption of any amendment to a Pension Plan if such amendment results in a material increase in contributions or Unfunded Pension Liability; and
     (d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries.
 
In addition, the Borrower shall promptly upon the issuance thereof, deliver to the Administrative Agent notice of any announcement by Moody's or S&P (i) of any change in any Debt Rating or (ii) that any Debt Rating will be put on a "negative outlook" or "negative credit watch."
Each notice under this Section shall be accompanied by a written statement by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein, and stating what action the Borrower or any affected Subsidiary proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice under shall describe with particularity any and all clauses or provisions of this Agreement or any other Loan Document that have been breached or violated.
Section 6.03(a)
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to (provided that nothing in this shall prevent the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, not under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, of any Subsidiary so long as no Event of Default exists and no Default will result therefrom):
6.04 Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
Section 6.04
     (a) preserve and maintain in full force and effect its existence and good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization (except in connection with transactions permitted by );
Section 7.04
     (b) preserve and maintain in full force and effect all governmental rights, privileges, qualifications, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business (except in connection with transactions permitted by and sales of assets permitted by ;
Section 7.04
Section 7.03)
     (c) use reasonable efforts, in the ordinary course of business, to preserve its business organization and goodwill (except in connection with transactions permitted by ); and
Section 7.04
     (d) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks;
except, in the case of clauses (b), (c) and (d) above, to the extent the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, maintain and preserve all its property which is used or useful in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Maintenance of Property
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable independent insurers (or pursuant to a self-insurance program), insurance with respect to its properties and business against loss or damage of the kinds customarily insured against by Persons engaged in the same or similar business, of such types and in such amounts as are customarily carried under similar circumstances by such other Persons.
6.06 Insurance
 
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, pay and discharge, as the same shall become due and payable all material tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
6.07 Tax Obligations
unless
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, comply with (i) any Requirements of Law of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over it or its business (including the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act) and (ii) any Contractual Obligation (other than any Contractual Obligation pertaining to Indebtedness) to which it is bound, in both cases the non-compliance with which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws; Contractual Obligations
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each of its ERISA Affiliates to: (a) maintain each Plan in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other federal or state law; (b) cause each Plan which is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code to maintain such qualification; and (c) make all required contributions to any Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, it being understood that any non-compliance with , or with respect to an Acquired Plan existing on the Plan Acquisition Date for such Acquired Plan shall not constitute a violation of this so long as (i) the Borrower is diligently proceeding to remedy such non-compliance and (ii) such non-compliance will not result in any material fine, penalty or other liability.
6.09 Compliance with ERISA
clause (a)
(b)
(c)
Section 6.09
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, maintain proper books of record and account, in which full, true and correct entries (sufficient to permit the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP) shall be made of all financial transactions and matters involving the assets and business of the Borrower and such Subsidiary. The Borrower shall permit, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to permit, the Administrative Agent, any Lender or their respective representatives (in each case at such Person's own expense unless an Event of Default exists), upon reasonable notice at any reasonable time during normal business hours and from time to time at the request of the Administrative Agent or the relevant Lender, to visit and inspect the properties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (and, if (i) any Default exists and has been continuing for 15 days or (ii) any Event of Default exists, to make copies or abstracts of their respective corporate, financial and operating records), and to examine the properties and books and records of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the appropriate officers, employees or authorized agents of the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
6.10 Inspection of Property and Books and Records
     . The Borrower shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, conduct its operations and keep and maintain its property in material compliance with all material Environmental Laws. Without limiting the foregoing, the Borrower
6.11 Environmental Laws
 
shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, (i) maintain all material operating permits for all landfills now owned or hereafter acquired; and (ii) dispose of hazardous waste only at licensed disposal facilities operating, to the best of the Borrower's or the applicable Subsidiary's knowledge after reasonable inquiry, in material compliance with all material Environmental Laws.
     . The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loans (i) to repay the Indebtedness of the Borrower under, and to terminate, the Existing Credit Agreement, (ii) to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Allied Acquisition, and (iii) for working capital, capital expenditures, letters of credit and other general corporate purposes not in contravention of any Requirement of Law or of any Loan Document; that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Loan to acquire any Person if the board of directors of the Person to be acquired has not approved such Acquisition.
6.12 Use of Proceeds
provided
     . The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent at the time that any Person is designated as or becomes a Material Subsidiary, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within thirty (30) days), cause such Person to (a) become a Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the Guaranty, a Guaranty Joinder Agreement or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in clauses (iii) and (iv) of and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a)), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
6.13 Additional Guarantors
Section 4.01(a)
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, unless the Required Lenders waive compliance in writing:
     .
7.01 Financial Condition Covenants
     (a) . The Borrower shall not permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the last day of any fiscal quarter to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
     (b) . The Borrower shall not permit the Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter to be greater than (i) 4.00 to 1.00 for any Computation Period on or before March 31, 2010, or (ii) 3.25 to 1.00 for any Computation Period thereafter.
Maximum Total Debt to EBITDA Ratio
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not suffer or permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, directly or indirectly, make, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist
7.02 Limitation on Liens
 
any Lien upon or with respect to any part of its property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following (""):
Permitted Liens
     (a) any Lien set forth in (as such Schedule may be updated on the Allied Acquisition Date), and any extension, renewal or replacement of any such Lien so long as the principal amount secured thereby is not increased and the scope of the property subject to such Lien is not extended;
Schedule 7.02
     (b) Liens imposed by law for taxes, assessments or charges of any Governmental Authority for claims not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently pursued and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained in accordance with GAAP;
     (c) statutory Liens of landlords and Liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and other Liens imposed by law or created in the ordinary course of business and in existence less than 120 days from the date of creation thereof for amounts not yet due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves or other appropriate provisions are being maintained in accordance with GAAP;
     (d) Liens (other than any Lien imposed by ERISA) consisting of pledges or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation;
     (e) Liens on the property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary securing (i) the non-delinquent performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases and statutory obligations, (ii) surety bonds (excluding appeal bonds and other bonds posted in connection with court proceedings or judgments) and (iii) other non-delinquent obligations of a like nature in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business, provided all such Liens in the aggregate would not (even if enforced) cause a Material Adverse Effect;
     (f) Liens consisting of judgment or judicial attachment liens and liens securing contingent obligations on appeal bonds and other bonds posted in connection with court proceedings or judgments, provided that (i) in the case of judgment and judicial attachment liens, the enforcement of such Liens is effectively stayed and (ii) all such Liens in the aggregate at any time outstanding for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries do not exceed $100,000,000;
     (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances incurred in the ordinary course of business which, individually or in the aggregate, do not materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the businesses of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
     (h) Liens securing obligations in respect of Capital Leases and purchase money financings on assets subject to such leases or financings to the extent such Capital Leases and purchase money financings are otherwise permitted by ;
Section 7.06(b)
     (i) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution; that (i) such deposit account is
provided
 
not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restrictions against access by the Borrower in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by the FRB, and (ii) such deposit account is not intended by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to provide collateral to the depository institution;
     (j) Liens on the rights of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in bonds issued in connection with revenue bond financings in favor of any issuer of a letter of credit used to provide security for the payment of such bonds; and
     (k) other Liens, in addition to those permitted by through , securing Indebtedness or arising in connection with Securitization Transactions; that (x) the sum (without duplication) of all such Indebtedness, plus the aggregate investment or claim held at any time by all purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) receivables and other rights to payment in all Securitization Transactions (other than the Allied Securitization Program or any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof) shall not at any time exceed $75,000,000 in aggregate outstanding amount, and (y) the aggregate principal balance owed under the Allied Securitization Program or any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof, shall not at any time exceed $400,000,000 in aggregate outstanding amount.
clauses (a)
(j)
provided
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, lease, convey, transfer or otherwise dispose of (whether in one or a series of transactions) any property (including accounts and notes receivable, with or without recourse) or enter into any agreement to do any of the foregoing (including any sale-leaseback), except:
7.03 Disposition of Assets
     (a) dispositions of inventory, or used, worn-out or surplus equipment, all in the ordinary course of business;
     (b) the sale, assignment or other transfer of accounts receivable, lease receivables or other rights to payment or any interest in the foregoing pursuant to any Securitization Transaction, together in each case with any collections or proceeds thereof, any collection or deposit accounts related thereto, and any collateral, guaranties or property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting, securing or otherwise relating to such receivables or other rights to payment;
     (c) Dispositions of property by any Subsidiary to the Borrower or to a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary; that (i) if the transferor of such property is a Guarantor, the transferee thereof must either be the Borrower or a Guarantor, and (ii) if the transferor of such property is not an Excluded Subsidiary, the transferee must either be the Borrower or a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary;
provided
     (d) any Regulatory Divestiture required in connection with the Allied Acquisition; that (i) no Event of Default shall exist at the time of or result from such Regulatory Divestiture, (ii) such Regulatory Divestiture shall be made for fair market value, (iii) at least 80% of the consideration for such Regulatory Divestiture shall be in the form of cash or cash equivalents (excluding any portion of the consideration allocated to a portion of a Regulatory
provided
 
Divestiture permitted by clause (e) of this ; it being agreed that the Borrower may rely on either this clause (d) or clause (e) below in making any Regulatory Divestiture or, in part, on both of such clauses), and (iv) promptly upon receipt thereof by the Person making such Regulatory Divestiture, the Borrower shall prepay Committed Loans and revolving loans under the New Credit Facility on a pro rata basis in an amount equal to the net cash proceeds from such Regulatory Divestiture; and
Section 7.03
     (e) other dispositions which are made for fair market value; provided that (i) at the time of any such disposition, no Event of Default shall exist or shall result from such disposition and (ii) the aggregate value of all assets so disposed of by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in any one-year period (calculated as of the date of any such disposition) shall not exceed 20% of Consolidated Tangible Assets as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, merge, consolidate with, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any other Person, except:
7.04 Consolidations and Mergers
     (a) any Subsidiary may merge with the Borrower or with any one or more Subsidiaries; that (i) if any transaction shall be between the Borrower and a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be the continuing or surviving Person, (ii) if any transaction shall be between a Subsidiary and a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person; and (iii) if any transaction shall be between an Excluded Subsidiary and a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary, a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
provided
     (b) any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) may sell or transfer all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise) to the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, and any Excluded Subsidiary may transfer all or substantially all of its assets to the Borrower or a Subsidiary that is not an Excluded Subsidiary for nominal consideration or as a result of the voluntary dissolution or liquidation of such Excluded Subsidiary; and
     (c) any merger, consolidation or disposition in connection with a transaction permitted by or an Acquisition permitted by .
Section 7.03
Section 7.05
     .
7.05 Loans and Investments
     (a) The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, purchase or acquire any capital stock, Equity Interest or obligations or other securities of, or any interest in, any Person, or make any Acquisition, or make any advance, loan, extension of credit or capital contribution to or any other investment in any Person (including any Affiliate of the Borrower) (any of the foregoing an "Investment"), unless (x) such loan, advance, investment, acquisition or other purchase does not cause the Borrower to violate the financial covenants contained in or , and (y) no Default would result therefrom.
Section 7.01(a)
(b)
 
     (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to make any Investment in any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity after the Allied Acquisition Date other than the following:
     (i) transfers of receivables and other rights to payment in connection with the Allied Securitization Program (or any extension, renewal or refinancing thereof), together in each case with any collections or proceeds thereof, any collection or deposit accounts related thereto, and any collateral, guaranties or property or claims in favor of the Borrower or such Subsidiary supporting, securing payment or otherwise relating to such receivables or other rights to payment, so long as the maximum outstanding principal amount of the Allied Securitization Program (or such extension, renewal or refinancing) does not exceed $400,000,000;
     (ii) Investments by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in the RMI Subsidiaries described on ; and
Schedule 7.05(b)
     (iii) other Investments in any Republic Insurance Entity after the Allied Acquisition Date consisting of (x) cash contributed (whether in the form of debt or equity) to such Republic Insurance Entity and unreimbursed drawings on letters of credit issued at the request of the Borrower or any Subsidiary on behalf of such Republic Insurance Entity so long as the aggregate amount of all such Investments (net of any amounts repaid, returned or reimbursed), when combined with all Investments in any Republic Insurance Entities existing on the Allied Acquisition Date that consist of cash contributions or unreimbursed drawings under letters of credit, shall not exceed $100,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding, and (y) letters of credit issued at the request of the Borrower or any Subsidiary on behalf of such Republic Insurance Entity so long as the aggregate principal amount of all such letters of credit, when combined with all Investments existing on the Allied Acquisition Date that consist of letters of credit issued on behalf of all Republic Insurance Entities, shall not exceed $175,000,000 in the aggregate at any time outstanding.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness secured directly or indirectly by assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary other than the following:
7.06 Limitation on Secured Indebtedness
     (a) secured Indebtedness listed on (as such Schedule may be updated on the Allied Acquisition Date) (including any extensions, renewals and refinancings thereof so long as the principal amount thereof is not increased);
Schedule 7.06
     (b) Capital Leases and purchase money financings on assets subject to such leases or financings in an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000 at any time outstanding;
     (c) Indebtedness supported by letters of credit;
 
     (d) Indebtedness under the Allied Securitization Program (including any extension, renewal and refinancing thereof) so long as the maximum outstanding principal amount thereof does not exceed $400,000,000;
     (e) other secured Indebtedness not exceeding in the aggregate at any time an outstanding amount of $75,000,000; and
     (f) in the case of any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity, Indebtedness secured directly or indirectly by the assets of such Person or its Subsidiaries.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity) to, enter into any transaction with any Affiliate of the Borrower (other than a Loan Party), except upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate of the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
7.07 Transactions with Affiliates
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, use any portion of the Loan proceeds or any Letter of Credit, directly or indirectly, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock, (ii) to repay or otherwise refinance indebtedness of the Borrower or others incurred to purchase or carry Margin Stock or (iii) to extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock.
7.08 Use of Proceeds
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Allied Unrestricted Subsidiary, any Securitization Subsidiary or any Republic Insurance Entity), to make any Restricted Payment except that:
7.09 Restricted Payments
     (a) each Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to the Borrower, the Guarantors and any other Person that owns an Equity Interest in such Subsidiary, ratably according to their respective holdings of the type of Equity Interest in respect of which such Restricted Payment is being made;
     (b) the Borrower and each Subsidiary may declare and make dividend payments or other distributions payable solely in the common stock or other common Equity Interests of such Person;
     (c) the Borrower and each Subsidiary may purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire Equity Interests issued by it with the proceeds received from the substantially concurrent issue of new shares of its common stock or other common Equity Interests;
     (d) the Borrower may make any other Restricted Payment so long as (i) such Restricted Payment would not cause the Borrower to violate any financial covenant contained in or and (ii) no other Default would result therefrom; and
Section 7.01(a)
(b)
     (e) until the day after the Allied Acquisition Date, Allied and its Subsidiaries may make any Restricted Payments that would otherwise have been permitted to be made under the
 
Allied Credit Facility (as defined in the Merger Agreement) as the same was in effect immediately prior to the closing of the Allied Acquisition.
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any of its ERISA Affiliates to: (a) engage in a prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; or (b) engage in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA.
7.10 ERISA
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary to, engage in any material line of business other than those lines of business carried on by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or Allied and its Subsidiaries on the Allied Acquisition Date and lines of business complementary thereto; that (i) in no event will the Borrower permit a material portion of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to involve or relate to hazardous waste, and (ii) in no event will the Borrower direct any Excluded Subsidiary to engage in any business other than (x) in the case of any Securitization Subsidiary, Securitization Transactions permitted hereby, and (y) in the case of any other Excluded Subsidiary, the business carried on by such Subsidiary on the later of the Allied Acquisition Date and the date that such Subsidiary is approved by the Administrative Agent as an Excluded Subsidiary.
7.11 Change in Business
provided
     . The Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary (other than any Excluded Subsidiary) to, enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement, any other Loan Document and any Contractual Obligations with respect to the New Credit Facility) that (a) limits the ability (i) of any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) to make Restricted Payments to the Borrower or to otherwise transfer property to the Borrower, (ii) of any Subsidiary (other then an Excluded Subsidiary) to guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrower or (iii) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (other than an Excluded Subsidiary) to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person; or (b) requires the grant of a Lien to secure an obligation of such Person if a Lien is granted to secure another obligation of such Person; except, in each case, (1) as required under applicable Requirements of Law, (2) as required under the Loan Documents, (3) for Permitted Liens, (4) for restrictions in the Senior Note Indentures that are in effect on the Allied Acquisition Date, (5) for prohibitions on assignment or transfer contained in leases and (6) as set forth in .
7.12 Burdensome Agreements
Schedule 7.12
     . Any of the following shall constitute an "Event of Default":
8.01 Event of Default
     (a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, any amount of principal of any Loan or the principal amount of any L/C Obligation, or (ii) within five days after the same becomes due, any interest, fee or any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document.
Non-Payment
     (b) . Any representation or warranty by the Borrower or any Subsidiary made or deemed made herein or in any other Loan Document, or which is
Representation or Warranty
 
contained in any certificate, document or financial or other statement by the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any Responsible Officer furnished at any time under this Agreement or under any other Loan Document, is incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made.
     (c) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of or .
Specific Defaults
subsection 6.03(a)
Article VII
     (d) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other term or covenant contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after the date upon which written notice thereof is given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Other Defaults
     (e) . (i) The Borrower or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment of Material Financial Obligations when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise, but after giving effect to any applicable grace or cure period); or (B) fails to perform or observe any other condition or covenant, or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist, under one or more agreements or instruments relating to Material Financial Obligations, if the effect of such failure, event or condition (after giving effect to any applicable grace or cure period) is to cause (or require), or to permit the holder or holders of such Material Financial Obligations or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Material Financial Obligations (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause (or require), such Material Financial Obligations to become due and payable (or to be purchased, repurchased, defeased or cash collateralized) prior to the stated maturity thereof.
Cross-Default
     (f) . The Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) ceases or fails to be Solvent, or generally fails to pay, or admits in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, subject to applicable grace periods, if any, whether at stated maturity or otherwise; (ii) voluntarily ceases to conduct its business in the ordinary course; (iii) commences any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to itself; or (iv) takes any action to effectuate or authorize any of the foregoing; that the foregoing shall not apply to the voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of a Subsidiary permitted by .
Insolvency, Voluntary Proceedings
provided
Section 6.04
     (g) . (i) Any involuntary Insolvency Proceeding is commenced or filed against the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process is issued or levied against a substantial part of the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's properties, and such proceeding or petition shall not be dismissed, or such writ, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process shall not be released, vacated or fully bonded, within 60 days after commencement, filing or levy; (ii) the Borrower or any Subsidiary admits the material allegations of a petition against it in any Insolvency Proceeding, or an order for relief (or similar order under non-U.S. law) is ordered in any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to the Borrower or such Subsidiary; or (iii) the Borrower or any Subsidiary acquiesces in the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, mortgagee in possession (or agent therefor), or other similar Person for itself or a substantial portion of its property or business.
Involuntary Proceedings
 
     (h) . (i) An ERISA Event shall occur with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000; (ii) a contribution failure shall occur with respect to a Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA; or (iii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate shall fail to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period (or any period during which (x) the Borrower is permitted to contest its obligation to make such payment without incurring any liability (other than interest) or penalty and (y) the Borrower is contesting such obligation in good faith and by appropriate proceedings), any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA or any contribution obligation under Section 4243 of ERISA, in each case under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000.
ERISA
     (i) . One or more non-interlocutory judgments, non-interlocutory orders, decrees or arbitration awards is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary involving in the aggregate a liability (to the extent not covered by insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage) as to any single or related series of transactions, incidents or conditions of $100,000,000 or more, and the same shall remain unvacated and unstayed pending appeal for a period of 25 days after the entry thereof.
Judgments
     (j) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
     (k) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document.
Invalidity of Loan Documents
     . If any Event of Default occurs, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders:
8.02 Remedies
     (a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans (including the commitment of the Swing Line Lender to make Swing Line Loans) and any obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
     (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
     (c) require that the Borrower Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
 
     (d) exercise on behalf of itself and the other Guaranteed Parties all other rights and remedies available to it and the other Guaranteed Parties under the Loan Documents or applicable law;
, , that upon the occurrence of any event specified in or of (in the case of of , upon the expiration of the 60-day period mentioned therein), the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of each L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any other Lender. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of any declaration described in or of the preceding sentence, but failure to give any such notice shall not impair any such declaration or result in any liability to the Administrative Agent.
provided
however
subsection (f)
(g)
Section 8.01
clause (i)
subsection (g)
clause (a)
(b)
     . The rights provided for in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights, powers, privileges or remedies provided by law or in equity, or under any other instrument, document or agreement now existing or hereafter arising.
8.03 Rights Not Exclusive
     . After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.04 Application of Receipts
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers (including reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and L/C Issuers and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations arising under the Loan Documents, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
 
     , to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuers, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit;
Fifth
     , to the payment of the Obligations then owing under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements, ratably among the Guaranteed Parties in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Sixth
Sixth
     , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.03(c)
Fifth
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, Obligations arising under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements shall be excluded from the application described above if the Administrative Agent has not received written notice thereof, together with such supporting documentation as the Administrative Agent may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be. Each Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank not a party to this Agreement that has given the notice contemplated by the preceding sentence shall, by such notice, be deemed to have acknowledged and accepted the appointment of the Administrative Agent pursuant to the terms of for itself and its Affiliates as if a "Lender" party hereto.
Article IX
     . Each of the Lenders and each L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article, except hereof, are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and neither the Borrower nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions, except hereof.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
Section 9.06
Section 9.06
     . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with
9.02 Rights as a Lender
 
the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
     . The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
     (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
     (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or an L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
     The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
     . The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or such L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or such L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
     . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties
     . The Administrative Agent may at any time resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' prior notice to the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States and which successor administrative agent shall be consented to by the Borrower at all times other than during the existence of an Event of Default (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment prior to the effective date of resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and in consultation with the Borrower, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; provided that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and each L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
 
successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 10.04
     Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as an L/C Issuer and as Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
     . Each Lender and each L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
     . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the syndication agent, co-documentation agents, joint lead arrangers or joint book managers listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agent, a Lender or an L/C Issuer hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
     . In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due
 
the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.03(i)
(j)
2.09
10.04
     (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and each L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
     Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or any L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or any L/C Issuer or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or any L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
     The Lenders and the L/C Issuers irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder. Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this .
9.10 Guaranty Matters.
Section 9.10
     No Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank who obtains the benefit of the provisions of , or the Guaranty by virtue of the provisions hereof or of the Guaranty shall have any right to notice of any action or to consent to, direct or object to any action hereunder or under any other Loan Document or otherwise other than in its capacity as a Lender and, in such case, only to the extent expressly provided in the Loan Documents. Without limitation of the foregoing, each such Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank acknowledges that (i) the exercise of rights and remedies under the Guaranty shall be taken solely by the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties; and (ii) such Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be, does not have the right to independently pursue rights or remedies under the Guaranty. Notwithstanding any other provision of this to the contrary, the Administrative Agent shall be required to verify the payment of, or that other satisfactory arrangements have been made with respect to, Obligations arising under Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements only if the Administrative Agent has received written notice of such Obligations, together with such supporting documentation as the Administrative Agent may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be.
9.11 Guaranteed Cash Management Agreements and Guaranteed Hedge Agreements.
Section 8.04
Article IX
     Upon (i) the disposition of any Guarantor in a transaction permitted hereunder that causes such Guarantor to cease to be a Subsidiary or the
9.12 Release of Guarantors.
 
request of the Borrower in the event an existing Guarantor ceases to be a Material Subsidiary (as certified to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower and demonstrated in reasonable detail using financial information from the most recently ended fiscal period for which financial statements are available), the Administrative Agent shall execute such documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower to evidence the release of such Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty (including any related Guaranty Joinder Agreement) and (ii) repayment in full of all Obligations (other than (x) Obligations under any Cash Management Agreement and (y) Obligations under any Guaranteed Hedge Agreement as to which arrangements satisfactory to the applicable Hedge Bank have been made) and termination by the Borrower of the Commitments hereunder in accordance with , the Administrative Agent shall execute such documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower to evidence the release of each Subsidiary that is a Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty (including any related Guaranty Joinder Agreement), except to the extent such Obligations by their terms expressly survive termination of the Guaranty or release of the Guarantor thereunder.
Section 2.06
     . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders (or by the Administrative Agent at the written request of the Required Lenders) and the Borrower or other applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01 Amendments, Etc
provided
however
     (a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
     (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
     (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
     (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate;
Section 10.01
provided
however
     (e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby or change in a manner that would alter the pro
Section 2.13
Section 8.04
Section 2.06
 
rata treatment of reductions of the Aggregate Commitments, in each case without the written consent of each Lender;
     (f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; or
     (g) release all or substantially all of the Guarantors without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the applicable L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the applicable L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it or extend the Letter of Credit Expiration Date applicable to the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) either Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
     .
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
     (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
     (i) if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Bank of America as the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
     (ii) if to any other Lender or L/C Issuer, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent if confirmation of delivery has been received (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at
 
the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
     (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or any L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
     Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
     (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
 
     (d) . Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
     (e) . The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except in the case of any of the foregoing persons who are seeking indemnification hereunder, to the extent such reliance resulted from such Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
     . No failure by any Guaranteed Party to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties; , that the
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
Section 8.02
provided
 
foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) any L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and provided, further, that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
Section 10.08
Section 2.13
Section 8.02
Section 2.13
     .
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer, including the reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
     (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, including the reasonable fees and expenses of any attorney who may be an employee of any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
 
of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the applicable L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
provided
     (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), each L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), such L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
Section 2.12(d)
     (d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
 
actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
     (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
     (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and Bank of America as an L/C Issuer, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
     . To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, such L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and each L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside
     .
10.06 Successors and Assigns
     (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
     (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
     (i) .
Minimum Amounts
     (A) In the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) In any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met;
provided
however
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
     (A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
     (B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
 
     (C) the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in its exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
     (D) the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned and assumed by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
     (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the
Register
Register
 
Borrower and any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
     (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries ) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
     Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.08
Section 2.13
     (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
     (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
     (g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of
Electronic Execution of Assignments
 
a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
     (h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' prior notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' prior notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; that such successor shall consent to such appointment by the Borrower; and that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of an L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to . Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
provided
further
Section 2.03(c)
Section 2.04(c)
     . Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives on a need-to-know basis (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any Eligible Assignee invited to be a Lender pursuant to or (ii) any actual or
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
Section 2.14(b)
 
prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
     For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed reasonable compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities laws.
     . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, each L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, after giving prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or such L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, such L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, such L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum
 
"). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Rate
     . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in or as provided in the applicable Loan Document, this Agreement or such other Loan Documents shall become effective when they shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof or thereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
     . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
     . If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
     . If (a) any Lender requests compensation under , (b) the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , (c) any Lender
10.13 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
 
is a Defaulting Lender, or (d) any Lender fails to approve any amendment, waiver or consent requested by the Borrower pursuant to that has received the written approval of not less than the Required Lenders but also requires the approval of such Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 10.01
Section 10.06
provided
     (i) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
     (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
     (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
     (iv) in the case of any such assignment resulting from the refusal of a Lender to approve a requested amendment, waiver or consent, the Person to whom such assignment is being made has agreed to approve such amendment, waiver or consent; and
     (v) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
     A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
     .
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
     (a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA.
GOVERNING LAW
     (b) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF FLORIDA SITTING IN BROWARD COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH FLORIDA STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
     (c) . THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
     (d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY WAIVES PERSONAL SERVICE OF ANY SUMMONS, COMPLAINT OR OTHER PROCESS.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
     . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial
 
     . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents and (iii) the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, co-documentation agents and Lenders with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
10.16 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
     . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Loan Party, which information includes the name and address of each Loan Party, tax identification number and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Loan Party in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
10.17 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


