FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20080728105521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
          Item 3.03 below is incorporated herein by reference.
          On July 28, 2008, the Board of Directors of Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, declared a dividend (the "Dividend") of one preferred share purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $.01 per share. The dividend is payable on August 7, 2008 to holders of record as of the close of business on such date. The specific terms of the Rights are contained in the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 28, 2008, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Rights Agent.
          The Board of Directors has authorized the adoption of a Rights Agreement to protect shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. In general terms, the Rights impose a significant penalty upon any person or group which acquires beneficial ownership of 10% (20% in the case of existing 10% holders) or more of the Company's outstanding common stock, including derivatives, unless such acquisition was approved by the Company's Board of Directors or such acquisition was in connection with an offer for all of the outstanding shares of Company common stock for the same consideration. The Rights will terminate concurrently with the purchase of more than 50% of the Company outstanding shares not owned by the acquiring person in such an offer, provided that the acquiring person irrevocably commits to purchase all remaining untendered shares for the same consideration as in the tender offer as promptly as practicable following completion of the offer.
          Following is a summary of the terms of the Rights Agreement. The following summary is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Rights Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 4.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
. The Rights will initially trade with, and will be inseparable from, the common stock. The Rights are evidenced only by certificates that represent shares of common stock. New Rights will accompany any new shares of common stock we issue after August 7, 2008 until the Distribution Date described below or the redemption or expiration of the Rights.
The Rights
. Each Right will allow its holder to purchase from our Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (a "Preferred Share") for $125, once the Rights become exercisable. This portion of a Preferred Share will give the stockholder approximately the same dividend and liquidation rights as would one share of common stock. Prior to exercise, the Rights do not give their holders any dividend, voting, or liquidation rights.
Exercise Price
. The Rights will not be exercisable until:
Exercisability
 
"Beneficial Ownership" as defined in the Rights Agreement includes interests a person may have as a result of hedging and similar transactions.
We refer to the date when the Rights become exercisable as the "Distribution Date." Until that date, the common stock certificates will also evidence the Rights, and any transfer of shares of common stock will constitute a transfer of Rights. After that date, the Rights will separate from the common stock and be evidenced by book-entry credits or by Rights certificates that we will mail to all eligible holders of common stock. Any Rights held by an Acquiring Person are void and may not be exercised.
The threshold at which a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person will be 20% for any person or group who or which has beneficial ownership of 10% or more of our common stock on July 28, 2008.
The Rights will automatically expire concurrently with the purchase of 50% of our outstanding common stock not previously owned by the acquiring person, pursuant to an offer for all of the outstanding shares of Company common stock for the same consideration, provided that the offeror irrevocably commits to purchase all shares not purchased in the offer for the same consideration actually paid pursuant to the offer.
Permitted Offer Exemption:
Consequences of a Person or Group Becoming an Acquiring Person.
Preferred Share Provisions.
Each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, if issued:
 
The value of one one-hundredth interest in a Preferred Share should approximate the value of one share of common stock.
. The Rights will expire on the earlier of (i) the close of business on July 27, 2009, (ii) the date on which a person or group purchases more than 50% of the unaffiliated shares of the Company pursuant to a Permitted Offer and (iii) the consummation of the merger between the Company and Allied Waste Industries, Inc.
Expiration
. Our Board may redeem the Rights for $0.01 per Right at any time before any person or group becomes an Acquiring Person. If our Board redeems any Rights, it must redeem all of the Rights. Once the Rights are redeemed, the only right of the holders of Rights will be to receive the redemption price of $0.01 per Right. The redemption price will be adjusted if we have a stock split or stock dividends of our common stock.
Redemption
. After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, but before an Acquiring Person owns 50% or more of our outstanding common stock, our Board may extinguish the Rights by exchanging one share of common stock or an equivalent security for each Right, other than Rights held by the Acquiring Person.
Exchange
. Our Board may adjust the purchase price of the Preferred Shares, the number of Preferred Shares issuable and the number of outstanding Rights to prevent dilution that may occur from a stock dividend, a stock split, a reclassification of the Preferred Shares or common stock. No adjustments to the Exercise Price of less than 1% will be made.
Anti-Dilution Provisions
. The terms of the Rights Agreement may be amended by our Board without the consent of the holders of the Rights. However, our Board may not amend the Rights Agreement to lower the threshold at which a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person to below 10% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, the Board may not cause a person or group to become an Acquiring Person by lowering this threshold below the percentage interest that such person or group already owns. After a person or group becomes an Acquiring Person, our Board may not amend the agreement in a way that adversely affects holders of the Rights.
Amendments
     On July 28, 2008 the Company issued a press release describing the Dividend and the Rights. A copy of the press release is included herein as Exhibit 99.1, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
          On July 28, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved amendments to the Company's Bylaws, which changes are effective as of July 28, 2008. The amendments revise Article II, Section 2.11 of the Company's Bylaws, add Article II, Sections 2.12 and 2.13 to the Company's Bylaws and revise Article VI, Sections 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 of the Company's Bylaws. The principal features of the amendments are as follows:
Written Consent Procedures Bylaw
     Article II, Section 2.11 (Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting) states that stockholders may take corporate action by written consent. The amended Bylaw explicitly requires that (i) stockholders to act by written consent must request the Board of Directors of the Company to set a record date for stockholders entitled to consent, and (ii) such request must contain all information that such stockholder would be required to provide if such stockholder had been making a nomination or proposing business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders. The record date must be set within ten days of a request and must be no later than ten days after the Board of Directors acts.
Advance Notice Bylaws
     The new Bylaws in Article II, Sections 2.12 and 2.13 (i) explicitly provide that these Bylaws apply to all stockholder nominations and proposals of business and are the exclusive means for a stockholder to submit such business, other than proposals governed by Rule 14a-8 of the federal proxy rules (which provide its own procedural requirements) and (ii) require certain disclosures regarding the stockholders making such proposals or nominations, including all ownership interests (including derivatives) and rights to vote any shares of any security of the Company. In addition, the Bylaws require disclosures regarding the business proposed, or if a nomination of a director, all information that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy filing, any compensation, agreements, arrangements and understandings between the nominee and the proposing stockholder, and a signed nominee questionnaire. The Bylaws require that a stockholder making a director nomination or bringing other business at a stockholder meeting must not only be a stockholder at the time of notice, but also at the time of the meeting.
Stock Certificates Bylaws
     Article VI, Sections 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3 have been amended to explicitly allow for the issuance of uncertificated shares of common stock of the Company.
     The preceding description is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Amended and Restated Bylaws, which is attached as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
(d)     .
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.1
     SECTION 1.1 REGISTERED OFFICE. The registered office of Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), shall be located at Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801.
     SECTION 1.2 OFFICES. The Corporation may establish or discontinue, from time to time, such other offices and places of business within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors deems proper for the conduct of the Corporation's business.
     SECTION 2.1 ANNUAL MEETING. An annual meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing directors and transacting such other business as may come before it shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, on such date and at such time as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or the President.
     SECTION 2.2 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of stockholders, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called by the Board of Directors or by the President. Business transacted at any special meeting of the stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice.
     SECTION 2.3 NOTICE OF MEETINGS. Written notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting at the stockholder's address as it appears on the stock books of the Corporation. The notice shall state the time and the place of the meeting and shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the day of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. In the case of a special meeting, the notice shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is being called. Whenever notice is required to be given hereunder, a written waiver of notice signed by the stockholder entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated in the notice, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting except when a person attends for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction or any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
 
     SECTION 2.4 QUORUM AND ADJOURNMENT. The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on every matter that is to be voted on, without regard to class or series, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders. In the absence of a quorum, the holders of a majority of the voting power of such shares of stock present in person or by proxy may adjourn such meeting, from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting (unless otherwise required by law), until a quorum shall attend. At any meeting reconvened after such adjournment at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called, but only those stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting as originally called shall be entitled to vote at any reconvened meeting, unless a new record date for such meeting is fixed.
     SECTION 2.5 OFFICERS AT STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at all meetings of stockholders. In his absence, the chairman shall be elected as the first order of business by the holders of a majority of the shares of stock in attendance and entitled to vote at the meeting.
     SECTION 2.6 LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE. At least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder, shall be prepared by or for the Secretary and shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. Such list shall be available for inspection at the meeting.
     SECTION 2.7 FIXING DATE FOR STOCKHOLDERS OF RECORD. In order that the Corporation may identify the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of the meeting is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. The record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, shall be determined pursuant to Section 2.11 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws). The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
 
     SECTION 2.8 VOTING AND PROXIES. Subject to the provisions for fixing the date for stockholders of record:
     (a) Except as otherwise specified in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), each stockholder shall at every meeting of the stockholders be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by that stockholder having voting rights as to the matter being voted upon.
     (b) Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for that stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy expressly provides for a longer period.
     (c) Each matter properly presented to any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of stock present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote on the matter.
     SECTION 2.9 INSPECTORS OF ELECTION. The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
     SECTION 2.10 CONDUCT OF MEETINGS. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of
 
stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
     SECTION 2.11 CONSENT OF STOCKHOLDERS IN LIEU OF MEETING.
     (a) Any action that may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the stockholders having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of such action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to each stockholder who did not consent thereto in writing.
     (b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date, which written notice shall include all information that would be required to be delivered pursuant to Section 2.12 of these Bylaws if the stockholder had been making a nomination or proposing business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
 
     (c) In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by paragraph (a) of this Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
     SECTION 2.12 NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS AND NOMINATIONS
     (a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who (i) was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw and at the time of the annual meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw as to such business or nomination; clause (C) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
          (2) Without qualification or limitation, for any nominations or any other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(C) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day and not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the date of such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the
 
announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice (whether given pursuant to this paragraph (a)(2) or paragraph (b)) to the Secretary must: (A) set forth, as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, if any, (ii) (a) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (b) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (c) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Company, (d) any short interest in any security of the Company (for purposes of this Bylaw a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (e) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (f) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (g) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (iii) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; (B) if the notice relates to any business other than a nomination of a director or directors that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, set forth (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest of such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, in such business and (ii) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understanding s between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; (C) set forth, as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board of Directors (i) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection
 
with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected) and (ii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such item and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and (D) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.13 of these Bylaws. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
          (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
     (b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who (i) is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw and at the time of the special meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw as to such nomination. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Bylaw with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.13 of this Bylaw) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of
 
business on the 120th day prior to the date of such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to the date of such special meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such special meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such special meeting, the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
     (c) General. (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
          (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
          (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(C) or paragraph (b) of this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a 8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock if and to the extent provided for under law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
     SECTION 2.13 SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONNAIRE, REPRESENTATION AND AGREEMENT. To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 2.12 of these Bylaws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (a) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the
 
Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (b) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein and (c) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
     SECTION 3.1 NUMBER AND TERM OF OFFICE. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. The number of directors that shall constitute the whole Board shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the stockholders or the Board of Directors and shall consist of not more than twelve (12) members. At the first annual meeting of stockholders and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, the respective terms of all of the directors then serving in office shall expire at the meeting, and successors to the directors shall be elected to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting. Existing directors may be nominated for election each year for a successive term, in the manner provided in these Bylaws. Each director shall hold office for the term for which he is elected and qualified or until his successor shall have been elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation, removal from office or death. The Board of Directors may from time to time establish minimum qualifications for eligibility to become a director. Those qualifications may include, but shall not be limited to, a prerequisite stock ownership in the Corporation.
     SECTION 3.2 PLACE OF MEETINGS. Meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place, within or without the State of Delaware, from time to time as designated by the Chairman of the Board or by the body or person calling such meeting.
     SECTION 3.3 ANNUAL MEETINGS. As soon as practicable after each annual meeting of stockholders and without further notice, the directors elected at such meeting shall hold the annual meeting of the Board of Directors at the place at which such meeting of stockholders took place, provided a majority of the whole Board of Directors is present. If such a majority is not present, such meeting may be held at any other time or place which may be specified in a notice given in the manner provided for special meetings of the Board of Directors or in a waiver of notice thereof.
     SECTION 3.4 REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times as may be determined by the Board of Directors. No notice shall be required for any regular meeting.
 
     SECTION 3.5 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each director at that director's residence or usual place of business not later than three (3) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be given to that director by telegraph, telecopier or other method of electronic transmission, by overnight express mail service, personally, or by telephone, not later than twenty-four (24) hours before the time of such meeting. Notice of any meeting of the Board of Directors need not be given to any director if that director signs a written waiver thereof either before or after the time stated therein. Attendance of a director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
     SECTION 3.6 ACTION WITHOUT MEETING. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the Board of Directors or of such committee.
     SECTION 3.7 PRESIDING OFFICER AND SECRETARY AT MEETINGS. Each meeting of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or in his or her absence, by the Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, in that order, and if none is present, then by such member of the Board of Directors as shall be chosen at the meeting.
     SECTION 3.8 QUORUM. A majority of the total authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of those present (or if only one be present, then that one) may adjourn the meeting, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such time as a quorum is present. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 3.9 MEETING BY TELEPHONE. Members of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
     SECTION 3.10 COMPENSATION. Directors shall receive such compensation and expense reimbursements for their services as directors or as members of committees as set by the Board of Directors. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent or otherwise, and receiving compensation therefor.
     SECTION 3.11 RESIGNATIONS. Any director, member of a committee or officer of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Chairman of the Board or the President. Such resignation shall be effective at the time of its receipt, unless a date certain is specified for it to take effect. Acceptance of any resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
     SECTION 3.12 REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS. No director may be removed without cause before the expiration of his or her term of office except by vote of the stockholders at a meeting called for such a purpose.
     SECTION 3.13 FILLING OF VACANCIES. In case of a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors or any vacancy created by death, removal, or resignation, the vacancy or vacancies may be filled either (a) by the Board of Directors, or (b) by the stockholders. In the case of a director appointed to fill a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, the director so appointed shall hold office for the term to which his predecessor was elected or until his successor is elected. In the case of a director appointed to fill a vacancy created by the death, removal or resignation of a director, the newly appointed director shall hold office for the term to which his predecessor was elected or until his successor is elected.
     The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each such committee to consist of one or more directors of the Corporation. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in such resolution or resolutions and to the extent permitted by law, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matter: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the General Corporation Law of the state of Delaware to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing the Bylaws of the Corporation.
     SECTION 5.1 DESIGNATION. The Corporation shall have such officers with such titles and duties as set forth in these Bylaws or in a resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on or after the effective date of these Bylaws.
 
     SECTION 5.2 ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION. The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and, if specifically determined by the Board of Directors, may consist of a Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers and agents as the Board of Directors may deem advisable. None of the officers of the Corporation need be directors.
     SECTION 5.3 TERM OF OFFICE. Officers shall be chosen in such manner and shall hold their office for such term as determined by the Board of Directors. Each officer shall hold office from the time of his or her election and qualification to the time at which his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier resignation, removal or death.
     SECTION 5.4 RESIGNATION. Any officer of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board of Directors or to the President. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if no time be specified, upon receipt thereof by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President. The acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
     SECTION 5.5 REMOVAL. Any officer may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 5.6 COMPENSATION. The compensation of each officer shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 5.7 THE CHAIRMAN AND THE VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. Unless otherwise specifically determined by resolution by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board shall be officers of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall, subject to the direction and oversight of the Board, oversee the business plans and policies of the Corporation, and shall oversee the implementation of those business plans and policies. The Chairman shall report to the Board, shall preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and of its Executive Committee, and shall have general authority to execute bonds, deeds and contracts in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation. In the absence or disability of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman shall be vested with and shall perform all powers and duties of the Chairman.
     SECTION 5.8 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the direction of the Board, establish and implement the business plans, policies and procedures of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall report to the Chairman of the Board, shall preside over meetings of the Board in the absence of the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, and shall have general authority to execute bonds, deeds and contracts in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation and in general to exercise all the powers generally appertaining to the Chief Executive Officer of a corporation.
 
     SECTION 5.9 PRESIDENT, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. The President, the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer shall have such duties as shall be assigned to each from time to time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and by the Board. During the absence of the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board or during their inability to act, the President shall exercise the powers and shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 5.10 VICE PRESIDENT. Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 5.11 SECRETARY. The Secretary shall attend meetings of the Board of Directors and stockholders and record votes and minutes of such proceedings, subject to the direction of the Chairman; assist in issuing calls for meetings of stockholders and directors; keep the seal of the Corporation and affix it to such instruments as may be required from time to time; keep the stock transfer books and other books and records of the Corporation; act as stock transfer agent for the Corporation; attest the Corporation's execution of instruments when requested and appropriate; make such reports to the Board of Directors as are properly requested; and perform such other duties incident to the office of Secretary and those that may be otherwise assigned to the Secretary from time to time by the President or the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 5.12 TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have custody of all corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit or disburse all moneys and other property in the name and to the credit of the Corporation as may be designated by the President or the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall render to the President and the Board of Directors at the regular meetings of the Board of Directors, or whenever they may request it, an account of all his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform other duties incident to the office of Treasurer as the President or the Board of Directors shall from time to time designate.
     SECTION 5.13 OTHER OFFICERS. Each other officer of the Corporation shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 6.1 STOCK CERTIFICATES. The interest of each holder of stock of the Corporation shall be evidenced by a certificate or certificates; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of shares of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or
 
a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation certifying the number of shares owned by the holder thereof in the Corporation. Any of or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. If any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, the certificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he/she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issuance.
     SECTION 6.2 CLASSES/SERIES OF STOCK. The Corporation may issue one or more classes of stock or one or more series of stock within any class thereof, as stated and expressed in the Certificate of Incorporation or of any amendment thereto, any or all of which classes may be stock with par value or stock without par value. In the case of shares of stock of the Corporation represented by certificate, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
     SECTION 6.3 TRANSFER OF STOCK. Subject to the transfer restrictions permitted by Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and to stop transfer orders directed in good faith by the Corporation to any transfer agent to prevent possible violations of federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations, the shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives (or, with respect to uncertificated shares, by delivery of duly executed instructions or in any other manner permitted by applicable law), and upon such transfer the old certificates (in the case of certificated shares) shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers, or to such other persons as the directors may designate, by whom they shall be cancelled, and new certificates (or uncertificated shares) shall be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer.
     SECTION 6.4 HOLDERS OF RECORD. Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Corporation may treat the holder of record of a share of its stock as the complete owner thereof exclusively entitled to vote, to receive notifications and otherwise entitled to all the rights and powers of a complete owner thereof, notwithstanding notice of the contrary.
     SECTION 6.5 LOST, STOLEN, DESTROYED, OR MUTILATED CERTIFICATES. A new certificate of stock may be issued to replace a certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation, alleged to have been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, and the Board of Directors or the President may require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate or his or her legal representatives, to give such sum as they may direct to indemnify the Corporation against any expense or loss it may incur on account of the alleged loss of any such certificate.
 
     SECTION 6.6 DIVIDENDS. Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, the directors may, out of funds legally available therefor at any annual, regular, or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of stock of the Corporation. Before declaring any dividends there may be set apart out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper working capital to serve as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or as equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem in the best interest of the Corporation.
     SECTION 7.1 FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 7.2 CORPORATE SEAL. The corporate seal shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe and the same may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
     SECTION 7.3 SEVERABILITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof.
     These Bylaws may be made, altered, or repealed, or new bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or the Board of Directors.

Exhibit 99.1
      
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (July 28, 2008)Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG  News) announced that its Board of Directors has taken steps that are intended to ensure that all Republic stockholders are treated equally in a transaction involving Republic.
Republic has adopted Bylaw amendments intended to provide orderly procedures to regulate the written consent process and to require notice and information about stockholder proposals. Stockholders seeking to act by written consent must request the Republic Board to set a record date for stockholders entitled to consent. The record date must be set within ten days of a request and must be no later than ten days after the Board acts. Absent this Bylaw action could be taken by consent without prior notice to Republic and all of its stockholders.
Republic has also adopted a stockholder rights plan targeted solely at partial accumulations of Republic stock. It would have no effect upon an offer for all shares that is accepted by a majority of the Republic shares unaffiliated with the bidder and it will not apply to the closing of Republic's planned merger with Allied Waste Industries, Inc.
The stockholder rights plan would penalize anyone acquiring more than 10% (20% in the case of existing 10% holders) of Republic's common stock, including through derivatives, unless such acquisition was approved by the Republic Board of Directors or such acquisition was in connection with an offer for all of the outstanding shares of Republic common stock for the same consideration. The rights will terminate concurrently with the acquisition of more than 50% of the outstanding shares not owned by the acquiring person in such an offer, provided that the acquiring person irrevocably commits to acquire all remaining untendered shares for the same consideration as in the tender offer as promptly as practicable following completion of the offer.
The rights distribution will be made on August 7, 2008, payable to stockholders of record on that date, and is not taxable to stockholders. The rights plan will expire on July 27, 2009.
 
Republic also announced today that its Board of Directors has waived Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law with respect to the acquisition by Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust of up to 20% in the aggregate of the outstanding shares of Republic common stock. Cascade and the Gates Foundation Trust have been long term stockholders of Republic and currently own approximately 15% of Republic's outstanding shares.
Detailed descriptions of the bylaw amendments and the rights are contained in filings being made by Republic today with the SEC.
Below are questions and answers regarding the steps taken by the Republic Board of Directors.
A. No, the Bylaw amendments are intended to provide orderly procedures to regulate the written consent process.
Q. Do the Bylaw amendments prevent action by written consent?
A. No, the stockholder rights plan does not change in any way the ability of Republic stockholders to accept a tender offer for all shares that a majority of the unaffiliated shares wish to accept.
Q. Does the stockholder rights plan prohibit a tender offer without Board approval?
A. The Board adopted the Bylaws and rights plan to protect against surprise consent solicitations and partial accumulations in excess of 10% of Republic common stock that could be unfair to stockholders. They will not stop a consent solicitation or have any impact upon an offer that a majority of our stockholders want to accept.
Q. Why did the Board take these steps? Are they defensive?
A. We took the action at the request of Cascade and the Gates Foundation Trust so they can have the flexibility to acquire up to 20% of Republic's shares without triggering Delaware's antitakeover statute. Cascade and the Gates Foundation Trust have been long term stockholders of Republic. There are no other agreements, arrangements or understandings between Republic, on the one hand, and Cascade and the Gates Foundation Trust, on the other.
Q. Why did you take the action with respect to Cascade?
A. The rights plan is intended to prevent third parties from directly or indirectly acquiring large, non-majority positions in Republic stock (including through derivatives) and disrupting our strategic plans.
Q. What, if any, potential impact does the rights plan have on your proposed deal with Allied?
About Republic Services, Inc.
Republic Services, Inc. is a leading provider of environmental services including solid waste collection, transfer and disposal services in the United States. The company's operating units are focused on providing solid waste services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers.
 
Additional Information and Where to Find It
This communication is being made in respect of the proposed business combination involving Republic and Allied. In connection with the proposed transaction, Republic plans to file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 containing a Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and each of Republic and Allied plan to file with the SEC other documents regarding the proposed transaction. The definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus will be mailed to stockholders of Republic and Allied. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF REPUBLIC AND ALLIED ARE URGED TO READ THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Republic and Allied through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC can also be obtained by directing a request to Republic Services, Inc., 110 SE 6th Street, 28th Floor, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 33301 Attention: Investor Relations or by directing a request to Allied Waste Industries, Inc., 18500 North Allied Way, Phoenix, Arizona 85054, Attention: Investor Relations.
Participants in Solicitation
Republic, Allied and their respective directors and executive officers and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Republic's directors and executive officers is available in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, which was filed with the SEC on February 21, 2008, and its proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 2, 2008, and information regarding Allied's directors and executive officers is available in Allied's Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2007, which was filed with the SEC on February 21, 2008 and its proxy statement for its 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, which was filed with the SEC on April 10, 2008. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
 
Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements and information included herein constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are identified by words such as will, expects, intends, and similar words. Any such forward-looking statements contained herein are based on current expectations, but are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of Republic or Allied. Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include: regulatory and litigation matters and risks, legislative developments, changes in tax and other laws, the effect of changes in general economic conditions, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied, the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated and other risks to consummation of the transaction, risks that the combined company may not achieve anticipated synergies, risks that the acquisition may not be accretive to earnings in the anticipated time frame, or at all, risks that the combined company may not generate expected cash flows, risks that the anticipated financing may not be secured, as well as risks relating to the business and operations of both Republic and Allied included in their respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stockholders, potential investors and other readers are urged to consider these factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements made herein are only made as of the date of this press release and the parties hereto undertake no obligation to publicly update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.


