FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20081125141320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On November 25, 2008, Republic Services, Inc. ("Republic") entered into a Letter Agreement (the "Letter Agreement") with Allied Waste Industries, Inc. ("Allied") in furtherance of their respective obligations under the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 22, 2008, as amended July 31, 2008 (the "Merger Agreement"), among Republic, RS Merger Wedge, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Republic, and Allied, to use reasonable efforts to ensure that the ratings condition of the Merger Agreement is satisfied. In the Letter Agreement, Republic and Allied agreed to provide, and to cause substantially all of their respective subsidiaries to provide, guaranties of certain indebtedness to the extent any of such parties were not already obligors thereon. Such guaranties shall not become effective, in the case of any Republic and Republic subsidiary guaranties, until the effective date of the merger, and, in the case of any Allied and Allied subsidiary guaranties, until the day after the effective date of the merger. Such guaranties shall otherwise, subject to certain provisions of the Merger Agreement, be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Republic and Allied. Any release of Republic under any guaranty obligation shall be limited to circumstances pertaining to the termination, satisfaction, discharge or defeasance of the applicable indebtedness which is the subject of such guaranty obligation. The Letter Agreement does not extend to those subsidiaries of Republic and Allied that are not required by the terms of Republic's $1.0 billion and $1.75 billion credit facilities to guaranty, and which do not guaranty, such credit facilities. The obligations of the Letter Agreement will terminate in the event the Merger Agreement terminates or expires in accordance with its terms.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 25, 2008
 

Exhibit 10.1
Allied Waste Industries, Inc. 18500 N. Allied Way Phoenix, Arizona 85054
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We refer to the respective indebtedness of Republic Parent and Allied, and their respective subsidiaries, described on Exhibit A attached hereto (""). In furtherance of their respective obligations under of the Merger Agreement to use reasonable efforts to ensure that the ratings condition of of the Merger Agreement is satisfied, Republic Parent and Allied each hereby agree to provide, and to cause substantially all of their respective subsidiaries to provide, guaranties of the Indebtedness to the extent any of such parties are not currently obligors thereon; , that: (i) such guaranties shall not become effective, in the case of any Republic Parent and Republic Parent subsidiary guaranties, until the effective date of the Merger, and, in the case of any Allied and Allied subsidiary guaranties, until the day after the effective date of the Merger; (ii) such guaranties shall otherwise, subject to of the Merger Agreement, be in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the parties hereto (provided that any release of Republic Parent under any such guaranty obligation shall be limited to circumstances pertaining to the termination, satisfaction, discharge or defeasance of the applicable indebtedness which is the subject of such guaranty obligation); and (iii) this Agreement does not extend to those subsidiaries of Republic Parent and Allied that are not required by the terms of the Debt Financing (defined on Exhibit A hereto) to guaranty, and which do not guaranty, the Debt Financing.
Indebtedness
Section 7.11(d)
Section 8.02(e)
provided
however
Section 7.11(d)
     This Agreement is for the benefit of the parties to the Merger Agreement, and no third party beneficiary is intended. This Agreement does not constitute a guarantee of any of the Indebtedness. The obligations in this Agreement shall terminate and be of no effect in the event that the Merger Agreement terminates or expires in accordance with its terms prior to the closing of the Merger.
 
     Please indicate your acceptance of the understandings and agreement contained herein by having a copy of this letter executed in the space indicated below.
 
 


