FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20090602170015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 5.04. TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF TRADING UNDER REGISTRANT'S EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.
On June 2, 2009, Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company" or "Republic") sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them of a proposed blackout period (the "Blackout Period") regarding the Republic Services 401(k) Plan (the "Republic Plan"), and a prohibition on engaging in any non-exempt transactions in equity securities of the Company during the Blackout Period (the "Notice").
The Blackout Period was required in order to effect a merger of the Republic Plan into the Allied Waste Industries, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "Allied Plan") through a direct transfer of all assets under the Republic Plan to the Allied Plan, resulting in changing the record-keeper of the Republic Plan, the trustee of the Republic Plan and the investment options available in both the Republic Plan and Allied Plan.
The Blackout Period for the Republic Plan is expected to begin at 3:00 p.m. Eastern time on June 26, 2009 and end on July 10, 2009. A notice of the Blackout Period was sent to participants and beneficiaries under the Republic Plan on May 26, 2009.
During the Blackout Period, participants in the Republic Plan will be temporarily unable to access their account information, direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts (including their investments in Republic's common stock), obtain a loan or obtain a distribution.
The Notice was provided to the Company's directors and executive officers pursuant to the requirements of Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation BTR. A copy of the Notice is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
A participant in the Republic Plan, a security holder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the Blackout Period, including the actual ending date of the Blackout Period. Information may be obtained before, during and for at least two years after the Blackout Period by contacting Michael Rissman, acting General Counsel, at the following: Republic Services, Inc., 18500 North Allied Way, Phoenix, Arizona 85054, (480) 627-2700.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 2, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
As you are aware, the Republic Services 401(k) Plan (the "Republic Plan") will be merged into the Allied Waste Industries, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "Allied Plan") through a direct transfer of all assets under the Republic Plan to the Allied Plan, resulting in changing the record-keeper of the Republic Plan, the trustee of the Republic Plan and investment options available in both the Republic Plan and Allied Plan.
Due to the merger of the Republic Plan into the Allied Plan, participants in the Republic Plan will be temporarily unable to access their account information, direct or diversify investments in their individual accounts (including their investments in Republic Services common stock), obtain a loan, or obtain a distribution. This period, during which participants under the Republic Plan will be unable to exercise these rights otherwise available under the Republic Plan, is called a "blackout period."
The blackout period for the Republic Plan is expected to begin at 3:00 p.m. Eastern time on June 26, 2009 and end July 10, 2009.
During this period, you can determine whether the blackout period has started or ended by contacting Republic Services Retirement Service Center at 1-800-881-1751 Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., Eastern time (excluding holidays). The Republic Services Retirement Service Center is located at P.O. Box 452, Little Falls, NJ 07424.
Regardless of whether you are a participant in either the Republic Plan or the Allied Plan, if you are a Section 16 Insider (director or executive officer), YOU WILL BE PROHIBITED FROM PURCHASING, SELLING OR OTHERWISE ACQUIRING OR TRANSFERRING ANY REPUBLIC SERVICES EQUITY SECURITIES (other than an exempt security, as defined in Section 3(a)(12) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) you acquire or previously acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer, during the Republic Plan's blackout period. This prohibition against trading Republic Services equity securities during the blackout period will not preclude you from engaging in exempt transactions described in Rule 101(c) of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation BTR.
Please remember that in addition to this prohibition against trading Republic Services equity securities during the blackout period, you are generally prohibited from buying, selling or recommending securities while you are aware of material, non-public information about any security or its issuer.
Federal securities laws require us to provide this notice to you as a director or executive officer. If you have any questions, please contact Michael Rissman, acting General Counsel of Republic Services, Inc., at the following:
Republic Services, Inc. 18500 North Allied Way Phoenix, Arizona 85054 (480) 627-2700


