FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20091030075903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
(d) The Board of Directors (the "Board") of Republic Services, Inc. ("Republic") elected Michael Larson, 50, to serve on the Board effective October 28, 2009. The Board further appointed Mr. Larson as a member of its Compensation Committee and its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Michael Larson is the Business Manager of Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and is the Chief Investment Officer for William H. Gates III. Cascade Investment, L.L.C. (which is wholly owned by Mr. Gates) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust own in the aggregate approximately 15% of Republic's common stock. Mr. Larson disclaims any beneficial ownership of the Republic common stock beneficially owned by Cascade Investment, L.L.C. and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Trust. Mr. Larson currently serves on the Board of Directors and Audit Committee of Pan American Silver Corp. He also serves on the Board of Directors for Hamilton Lane Advisors, L.L.C. and Grupo Televisa, S.A.B. and is Chairman of the Board of Trustees for two closed-end investment funds: the Western Asset/Claymore Inflation Linked Securities & Income Fund and the Western Asset/Claymore Inflation-Linked Opportunities & Income Fund. Mr. Larson is a trustee and Chairman of the Investment Committees at Claremont McKenna College and Lakeside School and serves on the Investment Committees for the University of Washington and the UNCF Gates Millennium Scholars Program. Mr. Larson earned an MBA from the University of Chicago and a BA from Claremont Men's College.
Mr. Larson is eligible to receive equity and cash compensation in accordance with Republic's previously adopted compensation arrangements for non-employee directors, including (i) 7,500 annual restricted stock units, beginning October 28, 2009 (subject, in the case of Mr. Larson's 2009 annual award, to pro rata reduction based on the number of days remaining in 2009), that will be issued upon Mr. Larson's termination of service as a member of the Board, (ii) a one-time grant of 9,509 restricted stock units, effective on October 28, 2009, that will vest and be issued in three equal annual installments commencing one year after the date of the award, (iii) an annual retainer of $80,000 and (iv) $1,500 for each Board or committee meeting attended. In addition, at the end of any quarter in which dividends are distributed to stockholders, Republic's non-employee directors, including Mr. Larson, receive additional restricted stock units with a value (based on the closing price of Republic's stock on the dividend payment date) equal to the value of dividends they would have received on all restricted stock units held by them on the dividend record date.
ITEM 5.03 AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS; CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR.
Effective as of October 28, 2009, the Board amended and restated Republic's Bylaws to repeal Article IX (as amended and restated, the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"), which provided for a special governance structure for a specified period of time following completion of Republic's merger (the "Merger") with Allied Waste Industries, Inc. ("Allied"). The key features of the repealed Article IX and the Amended and Restated Bylaws are as follows:
Republic Board of Directors
The repealed Article IX provided that:
 
Pursuant to Republic's Amended and Restated Bylaws, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board and shall consist of not more than 12 members (the majority of which must be independent of Republic for purposes of the rules of the NYSE). The entire Board will stand for election by the stockholders of Republic each year at Republic's annual meeting. Vacancies on the Board may be filled either by the Board or by Republic's stockholders. Republic's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates to the entire Board for nomination and election to the Board. Based on such recommendation, the entire Board is responsible for nominating members for election to the Board and for filling vacancies on the Board that may occur between annual meetings of stockholders.
Committees of the Republic Board of Directors
In addition, the repealed Article IX provided that, other than with respect to the Continuing Republic Committee or Continuing Allied Committee:
Pursuant to Republic's Amended and Restated Bylaws, committees may consist of one or more directors of Republic. Going forward, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, after consultation with the Chairman and CEO, shall recommend to the Board for approval, and the Board shall approve, all assignments of committee members, including designations of the chairs of the committees pursuant to Republic's Corporate Governance Guidelines. Further, Republic's Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that each of the Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Compensation Committee shall consist solely of independent directors.
The preceding summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Republic Services, Inc., filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 30, 2009

Exhibit 3.1
     Section 1.1 . The registered office of Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), shall be located at Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801.
Registered Office
     Section 1.2 . The Corporation may establish or discontinue, from time to time, such other offices and places of business within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors deems proper for the conduct of the Corporation's business.
Offices
     Section 2.1 . An annual meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing directors and transacting such other business as may come before it shall be held at such place, if any, within or without the State of Delaware, on such date and at such time as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or the President.
Annual Meeting
     Section 2.2 . Special meetings of stockholders, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called by the Board of Directors or by the President. Business transacted at any special meeting of the stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice.
Special Meetings
     Section 2.3 . Notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting at the stockholder's address as it appears on the stock books of the Corporation. The notice shall state the time and the place, if any (or the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person), of the meeting and shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the day of the meeting. Notice may be given personally, by mail or by electronic transmission in accordance with Section 232 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "General Corporation Law"). If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. In the case of a special meeting, the notice shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is being called. Whenever notice is required to be given hereunder, a waiver of notice by the stockholder entitled to notice, in writing or by electronic transmission, whether before or after the time stated in the notice, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting except when a person attends for the express purpose of
Notice of Meetings
 
objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction or any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Notice shall be deemed to have been given to all stockholders of record who share an address if notice is given in accordance with the "householding" rules set forth in Rule 14a-3(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Section 233 of the General Corporation Law. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, if any, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, (and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person at such adjourned meeting) thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days or a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, in which case a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
     Section 2.4 . The presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on every matter that is to be voted on, without regard to class or series, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders. In the absence of a quorum, the holders of a majority of the voting power of such shares of stock present in person or by proxy may adjourn such meeting, from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting (unless otherwise required by law), until a quorum shall attend. At any meeting reconvened after such adjournment at which a quorum may be present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called, but only those stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting as originally called shall be entitled to vote at any reconvened meeting, unless a new record date for such meeting is fixed.
Quorum and Adjournment
     Section 2.5 . At any meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or in his or her absence, the President, or if neither such person is available, then a person designated by the Board of Directors, shall preside at and act as chairman of the meeting. The Secretary, or in his or her absence a person designated by the chairman of the meeting, shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep a record of the proceedings thereof.
Officers at Stockholders' Meetings
     Section 2.6 . At least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder, shall be prepared by or for the Secretary. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. Such list shall also be available for inspection at the meeting, during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the list of stockholders required by this Section 2.6 or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
     Section 2.7 . In order that the Corporation may identify the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, not be less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of such meeting; and (2) in the case of any other action (other than a record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action without a meeting), shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of the meeting is given, or if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. The record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, shall be determined pursuant to Section 2.11 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws"). The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Stockholders of Record
     Section 2.8 . Subject to the provisions for fixing the date for stockholders of record:
Voting and Proxies
          (a) Except as otherwise specified in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), each stockholder shall at every meeting of the stockholders be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by that stockholder having voting rights as to the matter being voted upon.
          (b) Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for that stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy expressly provides for a longer period.
          (c) All matters other than the election of directors properly presented to any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of stock present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote on the matter.
          (d) Except as otherwise provided by these Bylaws, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to
 
the stockholders of the Corporation, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section 2.8(d) of these Bylaws, a majority of the votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election (with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" not counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election).
     In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, contingent on (i) that person not receiving a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) acceptance of that resignation by the Board of Directors in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors pursuant to these Bylaws, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation, and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision within ninety (90) days following certification of the election results. The committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant.
     If the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation pursuant to this Section 2.8(d), or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to Article III, Section 3.13 of these Bylaws.
     Section 2.9 . The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector or inspectors so appointed or designated shall (i) ascertain the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of each such share, (ii) determine the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, (iii) count all votes and ballots, (iv) determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and (v) certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law. In determining the validity and
Inspectors of Election
 
counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
     Section 2.10 . The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and (for any or no reason) to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Conduct of Meetings
     Section 2.11 .
Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
     (a) Any action that may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the stockholders having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of such action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to each stockholder who did not consent thereto in writing.
     (b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date, which written notice shall include all information that would be required to be delivered pursuant to Section 2.12 of these Bylaws if the stockholder had been making a nomination or proposing business to be considered at a meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the
 
Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
     (c) In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by paragraph (a) of this Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
     Section 2.12 .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
     (a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (A) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who (i) was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw and at the time of the annual meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw as to such business or nomination; clause (C) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
     (2) Without qualification or limitation, for any nominations or any other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(C) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary and such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a
 
stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day and not later than the close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the date of such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to the date of such annual meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such annual meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such annual meeting, the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice (whether given pursuant to this paragraph (a)(2) or paragraph (b)) to the Secretary must: (A) set forth, as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, if any, (ii) (a) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (b) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (c) any proxy, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation, (d) any short interest in any security of the Corporation (for purposes of this Bylaw a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (e) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (f) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (g) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (iii) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and
 
regulations promulgated thereunder; (B) if the notice relates to any business other than a nomination of a director or directors that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, set forth (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest of such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, in such business and (ii) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; (C) set forth, as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection to the Board of Directors (i) all information relating to such person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected) and (ii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such item and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; and (D) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.13 of these Bylaws. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 2.12 shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder with respect to business other than a nomination if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his, her or its intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee.
     (3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased effective at the annual meeting and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered
 
to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
     (b) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who (i) is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw and at the time of the special meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw as to such nomination. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Bylaw with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.13 of this Bylaw) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the date of such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to the date of such special meeting or, if the first public announcement of the date of such special meeting is less than 100 days prior to the date of such special meeting, the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of a special meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
     (c) General. (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Bylaw, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act
 
for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of the stockholders.
     (2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
     (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit the requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(C) or paragraph (b) of this Bylaw(other than, as provided in the penultimate sentence of (a)(2) of this Bylaw, matters brought properly under and in compliance with Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, as may be amended from time to time). Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock if and to the extent provided for under law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
     Section 2.13 . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 2.12 of these Bylaws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (a) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (b) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein and (c) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
 
     Section 3.1 . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. The number of directors that shall constitute the whole Board shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors and shall consist of not more than twelve (12) members. At the first annual meeting of stockholders and at each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, the respective terms of all of the directors then serving in office shall expire at the meeting, and successors to the directors shall be elected to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting. Existing directors may be nominated for election each year for a successive term, in the manner provided in these Bylaws. Each director shall hold office for the term for which he is elected and qualified or until his successor shall have been elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation, removal from office or death. The Board of Directors may from time to time establish minimum qualifications for eligibility to become a director. Those qualifications may include, but shall not be limited to, a prerequisite stock ownership in the Corporation.
Number and Term of Office
     Section 3.2 . Meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place, within or without the State of Delaware, from time to time as designated by the Chairman of the Board or by the body or person calling such meeting.
Place of Meetings
     Section 3.3 . As soon as practicable after each annual meeting of stockholders and without further notice, the directors elected at such meeting shall hold the annual meeting of the Board of Directors at the place at which such meeting of stockholders took place, provided a majority of the whole Board of Directors is present. If such a majority is not present, such meeting may be held at any other time or place which may be specified in a notice given in the manner provided for special meetings of the Board of Directors or in a waiver of notice thereof.
Annual Meetings
     Section 3.4 . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times as may be determined by the Board of Directors. No notice shall be required for any regular meeting.
Regular Meetings
     Section 3.5 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each director at that director's residence or usual place of business not later than three (3) days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be given to that director by telegraph, telecopier or other method of electronic transmission, by overnight express mail service, personally, or by telephone, not later than twenty-four (24) hours before the time of such meeting. Notice of any meeting of the Board of Directors need not be given to any director if that director signs a written waiver thereof or waives notice by electronic transmission either before or after the time stated therein. Attendance of a director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Special Meetings
 
     Section 3.6 . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such consents are filed with the minutes of the Board of Directors or of such committee.
Action Without Meeting
     Section 3.7 . Each meeting of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, or in his or her absence, by the Vice Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, in that order, and if none is present, then by such member of the Board of Directors as shall be chosen at the meeting.
Presiding Officer and Secretary at Meetings
     Section 3.8 . A majority of the total authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of those present (or if only one be present, then that one) may adjourn the meeting, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until such time as a quorum is present. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Quorum
     Section 3.9 . Members of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or of such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Meeting by Telephone
     Section 3.10 . Directors shall receive such compensation and expense reimbursements for their services as directors or as members of committees as set by the Board of Directors. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity as an officer, agent or otherwise, and receiving compensation therefor.
Compensation
     Section 3.11 . Any director, member of a committee or officer of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving notice thereof in writing or by electronic transmission to the Chairman of the Board or the President. Such resignation shall be effective at the time of its receipt, unless a date certain is specified for it to take effect. Acceptance of any resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignations
     Section 3.12 . No director may be removed with or without cause before the expiration of his or her term of office except by vote of the stockholders at a meeting called for such a purpose.
Removal of Directors
     Section 3.13 . In case of a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors or any vacancy created by death, removal, or resignation, the vacancy or vacancies may be filled either (a) by the Board of Directors, or (b) by the stockholders. In the case of a director appointed to fill a vacancy created by an increase in the number of directors, the director so appointed shall hold office for the term to which his predecessor was elected or until his successor is elected. In the case of a director appointed to fill a vacancy created by the
Filling of Vacancies
 
death, removal or resignation of a director, the newly appointed director shall hold office for the term to which his predecessor was elected or until his successor is elected.
     The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each such committee to consist of one or more directors of the Corporation. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in such resolution or resolutions and to the extent permitted by law, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matter: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by the General Corporation Law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing the Bylaws of the Corporation.
     Section 5.1 . The Corporation shall have such officers with such titles and duties as set forth in these Bylaws or in a resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on or after the effective date of these Bylaws.
Designation
     Section 5.2 . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and, if specifically determined by the Board of Directors, may consist of a Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers and agents as the Board of Directors may deem advisable. None of the officers of the Corporation need be directors.
Election and Qualification
     Section 5.3 . Officers shall be chosen in such manner and shall hold their office for such term as determined by the Board of Directors. Each officer shall hold office from the time of his or her election and qualification to the time at which his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier resignation, removal or death.
Term of Office
     Section 5.4 . Any officer of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board or to the President. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, if no time be specified, upon receipt thereof by the Chairman of the Board or the President. The acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
Resignation
 
     Section 5.5 . Any officer may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the Board of Directors, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation.
Removal
     Section 5.6 . The compensation of each officer shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Compensation
     Section 5.7 . Unless otherwise specifically determined by resolution by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board and the Vice Chairman of the Board shall be officers of the Corporation. The Chairman of the Board shall, subject to the direction and oversight of the Board, oversee the business plans and policies of the Corporation, and shall oversee the implementation of those business plans and policies. The Chairman shall report to the Board, shall preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and of its Executive Committee, and shall have general authority to execute bonds, deeds and contracts in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation. In the absence or disability of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman shall be vested with and shall perform all powers and duties of the Chairman.
The Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Board
     Section 5.8 . The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the direction of the Board, establish and implement the business plans, policies and procedures of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall report to the Chairman of the Board, shall preside over meetings of the Board in the absence of the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, and shall have general authority to execute bonds, deeds and contracts in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation and in general to exercise all the powers generally appertaining to the Chief Executive Officer of a corporation.
Chief Executive Officer
     Section 5.9 . The President, the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer shall have such duties as shall be assigned to each from time to time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and by the Board. During the absence of the Chairman of the Board or the Vice Chairman of the Board or during their inability to act, the President shall exercise the powers and shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors.
President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer
     Section 5.10 . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
Vice President
     Section 5.11 . The Secretary shall attend meetings of the Board of Directors and stockholders and record votes and minutes of such proceedings, subject to the direction of the Chairman; assist in issuing calls for meetings of stockholders and directors; keep the seal of the Corporation and affix it to such instruments as may be required from time to time; keep the stock transfer books and other books and records of the Corporation; act as stock transfer agent for the Corporation; attest the Corporation's execution of instruments when requested and appropriate; make such reports to the Board of Directors as are properly requested; and perform such other duties incident to the office of Secretary and those that may be otherwise assigned to the Secretary from time to time by the President or the Chairman of the Board.
Secretary
 
     Section 5.12 . The Treasurer shall have custody of all corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit or disburse all moneys and other property in the name and to the credit of the Corporation as may be designated by the President or the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall render to the President and the Board of Directors at the regular meetings of the Board of Directors, or whenever they may request it, an account of all his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform other duties incident to the office of Treasurer as the President or the Board of Directors shall from time to time designate.
Treasurer
     Section 5.13 . Each other officer of the Corporation shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors.
Other Officers
     Section 6.1 . The interest of each holder of stock of the Corporation shall be evidenced by a certificate or certificates; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of shares of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation certifying the number of shares owned by the holder thereof in the Corporation. Any of or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. If any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, the certificate may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he/she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issuance.
Stock Certificates
     Section 6.2 . The Corporation may issue one or more classes of stock or one or more series of stock within any class thereof, as stated and expressed in the Certificate of Incorporation or of any amendment thereto, any or all of which classes may be stock with par value or stock without par value. In the case of shares of stock of the Corporation represented by certificate, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, in accordance with the General Corporation Law, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class
Classes/Series of Stock
 
of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
     Section 6.3 . Subject to the transfer restrictions permitted by Section 202 of the General Corporation Law and to stop transfer orders directed in good faith by the Corporation to any transfer agent to prevent possible violations of federal or state securities laws, rules or regulations, the shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives (or, with respect to uncertificated shares, by delivery of duly executed instructions or in any other manner permitted by applicable law), and upon such transfer the old certificates (in the case of certificated shares) shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers, or to such other persons as the directors may designate, by whom they shall be cancelled, and new certificates (or uncertificated shares) shall be issued. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer.
Transfer of Stock
     Section 6.4 . Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer, the Corporation may treat the holder of record of a share of its stock as the complete owner thereof exclusively entitled to vote, to receive notifications and otherwise entitled to all the rights and powers of a complete owner thereof, notwithstanding notice of the contrary.
Holders of Record
     Section 6.5 . A new certificate of stock may be issued to replace a certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation, alleged to have been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated, and the Board of Directors or the President may require the owner of the lost or destroyed certificate or his or her legal representatives, to give such sum as they may direct to indemnify the Corporation against any expense or loss it may incur on account of the alleged loss of any such certificate.
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed, or Mutilated Certificates
     Section 6.6 . Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law, the directors may, out of funds legally available therefor at any annual, regular, or special meeting, declare dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation as and when they deem expedient. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of stock of the Corporation. Before declaring any dividends there may be set apart out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their discretion deem proper working capital to serve as a reserve fund to meet contingencies or as equalizing dividends or for such other purposes as the directors shall deem in the best interest of the Corporation.
Dividends
     Section 7.1 . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
 
     Section 7.2 . The corporate seal shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe and the same may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Corporate Seal
     Section 7.3 . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision hereof shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof.
Severability
     Section 8.1 General. These Bylaws may be made, altered, or repealed, or new bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or the Board of Directors.


