FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20090430172648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
Media Inquiries: Will Flower (480) 718-6565 Investor Inquiries: Ed Lang (480) 627-7128
Republic Contacts:
Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) today reported net income for the three months ended March 31, 2009 of $113.0 million, or $.30 per diluted share, compared to net income of $76.1 million, or $.41 per diluted share, for the same period in 2008. Our first quarter 2009 financial results include Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) which merged with Republic on December 5, 2008. Operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2009 was $353.0 million compared to $142.2 million for the comparable period in 2008. Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion for the three months ended March 31, 2009 was $598.1 million, or 29.0% of revenue compared to $220.0 million, or 28.2% of revenue in 2008.
PHOENIX, AZ  April 30, 2009...
Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2009 increased to $2,060.5 million compared to $779.2 million for the same period in 2008. Core price for the three months ended March 31, 2009 (assuming the merger with Allied had occurred on January 1, 2008) increased 3.5%. Internal growth for the three months ended March 31, 2009 (assuming the merger with Allied had occurred on January 1, 2008) decreased 8.6% (consisting of a 3.5% price increase offset by decreases of 8.0% in core volume, 2.9% in commodity prices and 1.2% in fuel charges).
 
Commenting on these results, James E. O'Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Republic Services, said, "During the first quarter, we continued to see positive results regarding the merger of Republic and Allied. Thus far, we have captured more than $75 million in annual run-rate synergy savings. We are well on our way, and remain confident in our commitment, to secure a total annual savings of at least $150 million by the end of 2010."
"The field organization has done an excellent job managing costs through improved efficiency and productivity during the economic downturn which has resulted in significant margin expansion," said Donald W. Slager, President and COO of Republic Services, Inc. "Customer service and effective pricing continue to be the primary focus of our business in 2009. We remain committed to achieving our previous pricing guidance of 4% for the full year."
In April 2009, we received approximately $332 million in proceeds from the sale of certain businesses mandated by the United States Department of Justice. These proceeds were used to repay amounts borrowed under our revolving credit facility.
Republic also announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $.19 per share for shareholders of record on July 1, 2009. The dividend will be paid on July 15, 2009.
Republic Services, Inc. is a leading provider of services in the domestic, non-hazardous solid waste industry. We provide solid waste collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 400 collection companies in 40 states and Puerto Rico. We also own or operate 242 transfer stations, 213 solid waste landfills and 78 recycling facilities. Republic serves millions of residential customers under contracts with more than 3,000 municipalities for waste collection and residential services. For more information, visit the Republic Services web site at www.republicservices.com.
 
 
 
 
 
The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Form 10-K as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008.
REVENUE
The following table reflects our total revenue by revenue source for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008:
The following table reflects our revenue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008. For comparative purposes, we have presented the components of our revenue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2009 on a pro forma basis as if the acquisition of Allied had been effective January 1, 2008.
 
 
MERGER WITH ALLIED
We completed our acquisition of Allied effective December 5, 2008. In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price paid has been allocated to assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the effective date of the merger, with the excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired being recorded as goodwill. We are in the process of valuing all of the assets and liabilities acquired in the merger, and, until we have completed our valuation process, there may be adjustments to our estimates of fair values and the resulting preliminary purchase price allocation.
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES
Operating Income before Depreciation, Amortization, Depletion and Accretion
Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 is calculated as follows:
We believe that the presentation of operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion is useful to investors because it provides important information concerning our operating performance exclusive of certain non-cash costs. Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy which includes reinvesting in existing capital assets to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment grade rating and minimizing debt, paying cash dividends, and maintaining and improving our market position through business optimization. This measure has limitations. Although depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion are considered operating costs in accordance with GAAP, they represent the allocation of non-cash costs generally associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior years.
Diluted Earnings per Share
Reported earnings per diluted share for 2009 are expected to be in the range of $1.10 to $1.15 per share. We anticipate reported 2009 earnings per diluted share before the accounting impact of our merger with Allied and restructuring charges to be in the range of $1.70 to $1.75 per share.
The following is a summary of adjusted diluted earnings per share for the anticipated twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and the actual three months ended March 31, 2009:
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes charges related to the integration of our businesses, higher depreciation, depletion and amortization, non-cash interest expense for amortizing the discount to fair value on Allied's debt and other acquired liabilities, and conforming our accounting policies provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain non-operational items. We use this measure, and believe investors will find it helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. Comparable charges and costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods.
Cash Flow
We define free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Our free cash flow for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 is calculated as follows (in millions):
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and the free cash flow presented above represent amounts paid during the period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows (in millions):
The adjustments noted above do not affect either our net change in cash and cash equivalents as reflected in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows or our free cash flow.
We believe that the presentation of free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment, net of proceeds from
 
sales of property and equipment. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy as previously discussed and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of free cash flow has material limitations. Free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Capital expenditures include $.4 million and $.3 million of capitalized interest for the three months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
As of March 31, 2009, accounts receivable was $877.6 million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $60.1 million, resulting in days sales outstanding of approximately 39 (or 23 net of deferred revenue).
CASH DIVIDENDS
In January 2009, we paid a cash dividend of $72.0 million to stockholders of record as of January 2, 2009. As of March 31, 2009, we recorded a dividend payable of $72.0 million to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 1, 2009, which has been paid. In April 2009, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $.19 per share payable to stockholders of record as of July 1, 2009, which will be paid on July 15, 2009.
INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements and information included herein constitute forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "guidance," "expect," "will," "may," "anticipate," "intend," "can," "could" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include statements about the expected benefits of the merger, our plans, strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the expectations will prove to be correct. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Refer to "Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. Additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


