FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20091125123315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT.
On November 25, 2009, Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company") completed the issuance and sale of $600 million of Senior Notes due 2021 (the "Notes") in a previously announced private offering.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering, which are approximately $595.6 million, as follows: approximately $450 million to finance the Company's call of its 7.875% Senior Notes due 2013, of which $450 million is outstanding, and approximately $145.6 million to finance a portion of the Company's call of its 4.250% Senior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2034, of which $230 million is outstanding. Cash on hand will be used to pay any accrued and unpaid interest and call premiums associated with these calls.
The Notes were sold only to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States to non-U.S. persons, in reliance on Regulation S. The Notes are subject to restrictions on transfer and may only be offered or sold in transactions exempt from, or not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
Indenture
The Notes were issued pursuant to the Indenture (the "Base Indenture"), dated as of November 25, 2009, by and between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, collectively with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), dated as of November 25, 2009, by and among the Company, the guarantors named therein and the Trustee. A copy of the Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture are filed as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
The Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will mature on November 15, 2021 with interest payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15, beginning May 15, 2010. The Notes are guaranteed by each of the Company's subsidiaries that also guarantee the Company's revolving credit facility. These guarantees are general senior unsecured obligations of the subsidiary guarantors.
At the Company's option, it may redeem some or all of the Notes, at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis at the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined in the Indenture), plus 30 basis points. Additionally, if the Company experiences specific kinds of changes of control, each holder of the Notes will have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of such holder's Notes, at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Indenture provides for certain limitations on the Company's ability and the ability of certain of its subsidiaries to (i) create liens on the capital stock or indebtedness of any principal subsidiary or certain property and (ii) enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Further, the Company may not consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of its assets as an entirety, unless, among other requirements: (i) the successor corporation assumes the Company's obligations on the Notes and (ii) no Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture) has occurred and is continuing. Failure by the Company to pay when due any of its obligations or any of its principal subsidiaries' obligations in the aggregate principal amount of at least $25 million that continues for 25 days after notice to the Company by the Trustee or holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding constitutes a default under the Indenture.
Registration Rights Agreement
In addition, on November 25, 2009, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with the guarantors named therein and Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the several initial purchasers named therein. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is filed as Exhibit 4.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Under the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to cause to become effective a registration statement with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for freely tradable notes issued by the Company, that are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and that have terms substantially identical in all material respects to the Notes. If the Company is unable to effect the exchange offer
 
and in other limited circumstances, the Company agreed to use its reasonable best efforts to file and cause to become effective a shelf registration statement relating to resales of the Notes. The Company will be obligated to pay additional interest on the Notes if it does not complete the exchange offer within 365 days after the issue date of the Notes, or in certain other circumstances if the Company is required to file a shelf registration statement.
The descriptions and provisions of the Base Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement set forth above are summaries only, are not necessarily complete, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full and complete terms contained in the Base Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
This Current Report on Form 8-K does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to purchase the Notes.
ITEM 2.03. CREATION OF A DIRECT FINANCIAL OBLIGATION OR AN OBLIGATION UNDER AN OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENT OF A REGISTRANT.
The information under Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 25, 2009

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          INDENTURE, dated as of November 25, 2009 between Republic Services, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "").
Trustee
          WHEREAS, the Company deems it necessary to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes senior debt securities (the "") evidencing its unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of the Securities, unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such times and to have such other provisions as shall be fixed as hereinafter provided;
Securities
          WHEREAS, this Indenture is subject to, and shall be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act;
          All acts and things necessary have been done to make (i) the Securities, when duly issued and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder, the valid obligations of the Company and (ii) this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company;
          For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows:
Section 1.01 .
DEFINITIONS
          For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires or unless such definition is changed or amended in a supplement or amendment to this Indenture:
          (a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
          (b) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
          (c) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
          (d) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;
 
          (e) all references to $, US$, dollars or United States dollars shall refer to the lawful currency of the United States of America; and
          (f) all references herein to particular Sections or Articles refer to this Indenture unless otherwise so indicated.
          Certain terms used principally in various articles herein are defined in those articles.
          "", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in .
Act
Section 1.05
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Additional Interest Notice
Section 7.08
          "" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
          "" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect at the time of such transfer or transaction.
Applicable Procedures
          "" means, when used in connection with a sale and leaseback transaction, at any date of determination, the product of (1) the net proceeds from such sale and leaseback transaction multiplied by (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full years of the term of the lease relating to the property involved in such sale and leaseback transaction (without regard to any options to renew or extend such term) remaining at the date of the making of such computation and the denominator of which is the number of full years of the term of such lease measured from the first day of such term.
Attributable Debt
          "" means Title 11, United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended, or any similar United States federal or state law or foreign law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, winding up, liquidation, reorganization or relief of debtors or any amendment to, succession to or change in any such law.
Bankruptcy Law
          "" means either the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of such Board, except as the context may otherwise require.
Board of Directors
          "" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company, as the case may be, to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
 
          "" means any Global Securities in the form in evidencing all or part of a series of Securities, authenticated and delivered to the Depositary for such series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depositary or nominee.
Book-Entry Security
Exhibit A
          "" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies in New York City and Phoenix, Arizona are authorized or obligated by law to close.
Business Day
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests (including partnership interests) in (however designated) the equity of such Person, including any Preferred Stock, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Securities Act, Exchange Act and Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
          "" means Republic Services, Inc., until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
          "" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any one of its Chairman of the Board, its President, its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer or a Vice President (regardless of Vice Presidential designation), and by any one of its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
          "" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (the "") of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
          "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
          "" means, as of any date, the total amount of assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (1) all current liabilities (excluding any current liabilities which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
the amount thereof is being computed or which are supported by other borrowings with a maturity of more than 12 months from the date of calculation,) (2) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles and (3) appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding stock of the Company's Subsidiaries, all as set forth on the most recent balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (but, in any event, as of a date within 120 days of the date of determination) in each case excluding intercompany items and computed in accordance with GAAP.
          "" means, with respect to any Person, the consolidation of the accounts of such Person and each of its subsidiaries if and to the extent the accounts of such Person and each of its subsidiaries would normally be consolidated with those of such Person, all in accordance with GAAP. The term "Consolidated" shall have a similar meaning.
Consolidation
          "" means the designated office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date of execution of this Indenture is located at 60 Livingston Avenue, St. Paul, MN 55107, Attention: Corporate Trust Services, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
          "" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
          "" means, with respect to the Securities issued in the form of one or more Book-Entry Securities, The Depository Trust Company (""), its nominees and successors, or another Person designated as Depositary by the Company, which must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act.
Depositary
DTC
          "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 5.01
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
          "" means the sum, without duplication, of the following items outstanding as of the date Exempted Debt is being determined with respect to any series of Securities: (1) Indebtedness of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries Incurred after the date of the supplemental indenture which sets forth the relevant series of Securities and secured by Liens created, assumed or otherwise Incurred or permitted to exist pursuant to hereof and (2) Attributable Debt of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of all sale and leaseback transactions with regard to any Principal Property entered into pursuant to hereof.
Exempted Debt
Section 10.05
Section 10.06
          "" means, with respect to any asset or property, the sale value that would be obtained in an arm's-length free market transaction between an informed and willing seller under no compulsion to sell and an informed and willing buyer under no compulsion to buy. Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Board of
Fair Market Value
 
Directors of the Company acting in good faith and shall be evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
          "" means all Indebtedness for borrowed money, including purchase money indebtedness, having a maturity of more than one year from the date of its creation or having a maturity of less than one year but by its terms being renewable or extendible, at the option of the obligor in respect thereof, beyond one year from its creation.
Funded Debt
          "" or "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as in effect from time to time.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GAAP
          "" means Global Securities to be issued as Book-Entry Securities issued to the Depositary in accordance with .
Global Securities
Section 3.06
          "" means the registered holder of any Security.
Holder
          "" means to issue, assume, guarantee, incur or otherwise become liable for. The terms "Incurred," "Incurrence" and "Incurring" shall each have a correlative meaning.
Incur
          "" means with respect to any Person at any date of determination (without duplication), indebtedness for borrowed money or indebtedness evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or other similar instruments given to finance the acquisition of any businesses, properties or assets of any kind (including, without limitation, capital stock or other equity interests in any Person).
Indebtedness
          "" means this instrument as originally executed (including all exhibits and schedules thereto) and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof.
Indenture
          "" means either one or more independent investment banking institutions of national standing chosen by the Company for a particular series of Securities or, if such firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
          "" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of April 26, 2007, among the Company, Bank of America, N. A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, Citibank, N. A., as syndication agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, and SunTrust Bank, as co-documentation agents, and certain other lenders thereto, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated as of September 18, 2008 (as the same may be amended, modified, waived, restated, supplemented, amended and restated, refinanced or replaced from time to time).
Initial Republic Credit Facility
          "" means, with respect to any Security, the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on the Securities.
Interest Payment Date
 
          "" with respect to any property or assets, means any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, lien, charge, easement (other than any easement not materially impairing usefulness or marketability), encumbrance, preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever on or with respect to such property or assets (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing), but not including the interest of a lessor under a lease that is an operating lease under GAAP.
Lien
          "" means, when used with respect to any Security, the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein provided or as provided in this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto, whether at Stated Maturity or the Redemption Date and whether by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor rating agency.
Moody's
          "" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or a Vice President (regardless of Vice Presidential designation), and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to, and delivered to, the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
          "" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, unless an Opinion of Independent Counsel is required pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, and which opinion shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
          "" means a written opinion of counsel which is issued by a Person who is not an employee, director or consultant (other than non-employee legal counsel) of the Company and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, and which opinion shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee.
Opinion of Independent Counsel
          "" when used with respect to any series of Securities means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
          (a) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
          (b) Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company or any Affiliate thereof) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company or any Affiliate thereof (if the Company or any Affiliate thereof shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that if
 
such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
          (c) Securities, to the extent provided in and , with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance or covenant defeasance as provided in ; and
Sections 4.02
4.03
Article IV
          (d) Securities in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee and the Company proof reasonably satisfactory to each of them that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands the Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor.
          "" means any Person (including the Company) authorized by the Company to pay the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any Securities on behalf of the Company.
Paying Agent
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
          "" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under in exchange for a mutilated Security or in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
Section 3.07
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or nonvoting) of such Person's preferred or preference stock, whether now outstanding or issued after the date of the Indenture, including, without limitation, all series and classes of such preferred or preference stock.
Preferred Stock
 
          "" means any land, land improvements or building, together with the land upon which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof, in each case, owned or leased by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and located in the United States, the gross book value (without deduction of any reserve for depreciation) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made is an amount which exceeds 2% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets but not including such land, land improvements, buildings or portions thereof which is financed through the issuance of tax exempt governmental obligations, or any such property that has been determined by Board Resolution not to be of material importance to the respective businesses conducted by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary effective as of the date such resolution is adopted.
Principal Property
          "" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed pursuant to any provision in this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto.
Redemption Date
          "" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed pursuant to any provision in this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto.
Redemption Price
          "" means (i) one or more Independent Investment Bankers chosen by the Company for any particular series of Securities, provided, however, that if any Reference Treasury Dealer shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company will substitute for such Reference Treasury Dealer another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Independent Investment Banker after consultation with the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary
Treasury Dealer
          "" mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
          "" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on any Securities means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Regular Record Date
Section 3.01
          "" means the Initial Republic Credit Facility and the Supplemental Republic Credit Facility.
Republic Credit Facility
          "" means, as to any Guarantor, such Guarantor's guarantee of the Republic Credit Facility (as the same may be amended, modified, waived, restated, supplemented, amended and restated, refinanced or replaced from time to time).
Republic Credit Facility Guarantee
 
          "" when used with respect to the Trustee means any officer assigned to the Corporate Trust Office or any agent of the Trustee appointed hereunder, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee or any agent of the Trustee appointed hereunder to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
          "" means any Subsidiary which, at the time of determination, owns or is a lessee pursuant to a capital lease of any Principal Property.
Restricted Subsidiary
          "" or "" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and, more particularly, means any Security or Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture; provided, however, that, if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to the Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
Security
Securities
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor rating agency.
S&P
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
          "" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to .
Special Record Date
Section 3.08
          "" means, when used with respect to any Security, the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the payment of principal or interest of such Security is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
          "" of a Person means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity of which at least a majority of the total voting power of the Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by (1) such Person, (2) such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or (3) one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
          "" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of September 18, 2008, among the Company, Bank of America, N. A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and L/C issuer, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A., as syndication agent, Barclays Bank PLC, BNP Paribas, and The Royal Bank of Scotland, as co-documentation agents, and certain other lenders thereto (as the same may be amended, modified, waived, restated, supplemented, amended and restated, refinanced or replaced from time to time).
Supplemental Republic Credit Facility
 
          "" means (1) any evidence of Indebtedness, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition, issued by the United States of America, or an instrumentality or agency thereof, and guaranteed fully as to principal, premium, if any, and interest by the United States of America, (2) any certificate of deposit, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition, issued by, or time deposit of, a commercial banking institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System and that has combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000, whose debt has a rating, at the time as of which any investment therein is made, of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's or any successor rating agency or "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P or any successor rating agency, including the Trustee or any of its Affiliates, (3) commercial paper, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition, issued by a corporation (other than an Affiliate or Subsidiary of the Company) organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America with a rating, at the time as of which any investment therein is made, of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's or "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P, including the Trustee or any of its Affiliates, and (4) any money market deposit accounts issued or offered by a domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000, provided, that the short term debt of such commercial bank has a rating, at the time of investment, of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's or "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P.
Temporary Cash Investments
          "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
          "" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture, until a successor trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean such successor trustee.
Trustee
          "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, or any successor statute.
Trust Indenture Act
 
Section 1.02 .
OTHER DEFINITIONS
Section 1.03 .
COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES AND OPINIONS
          Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate in a form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture (including any covenant compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel in a form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Trustee stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that, in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such certificates or opinions is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
          Every certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
          (a) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or individual or firm signing such opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
          (b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
          (c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual or such firm, he or it has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or it to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
          (d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual or such firm, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
Section 1.04 .
FORM OF DOCUMENTS DELIVERED TO TRUSTEE
          In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
          Any certificate of an officer of the Company or other obligor on the Securities may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company or other obligor on the Securities stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company or other obligor on the Securities, unless such officer or counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous. Opinions of Counsel required to be delivered to the Trustee may have qualifications customary for opinions of the type required and counsel delivering such Opinions of Counsel may rely on certificates of the Company or government or other officials customary for opinions of the type required, including certificates certifying as to matters of fact, including that various financial covenants have been complied with.
          Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company or other obligor on the Securities may be based, insofar as it relates to accounting matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an accountant or firm of accountants in the employ of the Company, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the accounting matters upon which his certificate or opinion may be based are erroneous. Any certificate or opinion of any independent firm of public accountants filed with the Trustee shall contain a statement that such firm is independent with respect to the Company.
          Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
Section 1.05 .
ACTS OF HOLDERS
          (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series or one or more series, as the case may be, may be
 
embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this .
Act
Section 1.05
          (b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
          (c) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act by the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security or the Holder of every Security issued upon the transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof, in respect of anything done, suffered or omitted to be done by the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Company or any other obligor of the Securities in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
          (d) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
          (e) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of such Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding Trust Indenture Act Section 316(c), any such record date shall be the record date specified in or pursuant to such Board Resolution, which shall be a date not more than 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders generally in connection therewith and no later than the date such first solicitation is completed.
          If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Securities then Outstanding have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for this purpose the Securities then Outstanding shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no
 
such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after such record date.
          (f) For purposes of this Indenture, any action by the Holders which may be taken in writing may be taken by electronic means or as otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Section 1.06 .
NOTICES, ETC., TO THE TRUSTEE, THE COMPANY
          Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with:
          (a) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities shall be sufficient for every purpose (except as provided in , in which case, the notice shall be delivered by certified mail) hereunder if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier, to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Holders or the Company, or any other obligor on the Securities by the Trustee and shall be deemed given upon actual receipt by the Trustee; or
Section 5.01(e)
          (b) the Company by the Trustee or any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose (except as provided in , in which case, the notice shall be delivered by certified mail) hereunder if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier, to the Company addressed to Republic Services, Inc., 18500 N. Allied Way, Phoenix, Arizona 85054, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
Section 5.01(e)
          The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods; provided, however, that (a) the party providing such written instructions, subsequent to such transmission of written instructions, shall provide the originally executed instructions or directions to the Trustee in a timely manner, and (b) such originally executed instructions or directions shall be signed by an authorized representative of the party providing such instructions or directions. If the party elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee's understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's reliance upon and compliance with such instructions notwithstanding such instructions conflict or are inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction. The party providing electronic instructions agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk or interception and misuse by third parties.
 
          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, as long as the Securities are in the form of a Global Security, notice to the Holders may be made electronically in accordance with procedures of the Depositary.
Section 1.07 .
NOTICE TO HOLDERS; WAIVER
          Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier, to each Holder affected by such event, at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Any notice when mailed to a Holder in the aforesaid manner shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder whether or not actually received by such Holder. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
          In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to mail notice of any event as required by any provision of this Indenture, then any method of giving such notice as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and reasonably calculated to reach its destination shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
Section 1.08 .
CONFLICT WITH TRUST INDENTURE ACT
          If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act or another provision which is required or deemed to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, the provision or requirement of the Trust Indenture Act shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
Section 1.09 .
EFFECT OF HEADINGS AND TABLE OF CONTENTS
          The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 1.10 .
SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
          All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company and the Trustee shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 1.11 .
SEPARABILITY CLAUSE
          In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 1.12 .
BENEFITS OF INDENTURE
          Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person (other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Paying Agent and the Holders) any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Section 1.13 .
GOVERNING LAW
          THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
Section 1.14 .
LEGAL HOLIDAYS
          In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Maturity or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of any Security) payment of interest or principal or premium, if any, need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Maturity or Stated Maturity and no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Maturity or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, to the next succeeding Business Day.
Section 1.15 .
INDEPENDENCE OF COVENANTS
          All covenants and agreements in this Indenture shall be given independent effect so that if a particular action or condition is not permitted by any such covenants, the fact that it would be permitted by an exception to, or be otherwise within the limitations of, another covenant shall not avoid the occurrence of a Default or an Event of Default if such action is taken or condition exists.
Section 1.16 .
SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
          All schedules and exhibits attached hereto are by this reference made a part hereof with the same effect as if herein set forth in full.
 
Section 1.17 .
COUNTERPARTS
          This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original; but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 1.18 .
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
          EACH OF THE COMPANY, ANY GUARANTOR AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 1.19 .
FORCE MAJEURE
          In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 2.01 .
FORMS OF SECURITIES
          The Securities, if any, of each series shall be in substantially the form of hereto or as shall otherwise be established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto or approved from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution in accordance with , shall have such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture or any indenture supplemental hereto, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Securities may be listed, or to conform to usage.
Exhibit A
Section 3.01
          The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods on a steel engraved border or steel engraved borders, or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
          The terms and provisions set forth in any Security shall constitute, and are hereby made a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Section 2.02 .
FORM OF TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
          Subject to , the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
Section 6.12
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture (as such Indenture may be supplemented or amended).
Section 3.01 .
AMOUNT UNLIMITED; ISSUABLE IN SERIES
          The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
          The Securities shall rank equally and pari passu in right of payment and may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions and, subject to , set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto which may amend the terms of this Indenture unless prohibited by the Trust Indenture Act, prior to the issuances of Securities of any series, any or all of the following, as applicable (each of which, if so provided, may be determined from time to time by the Company with respect to unissued Securities of the series when issued from time to time):
Section 3.03
     (1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of such series from all other series of Securities);
     (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to , , , , or ) and whether any series may be reopened for additional Securities of that series; in the event that such series of Securities may be reopened from time to
Section 3.04
3.05
3.06
3.07
9.06
11.08
 
time for issuances of additional Securities of such series, the terms thereof shall indicate whether any such additional Securities shall have the same terms as the prior Securities of such series or whether the Company may establish additional or different terms with respect to such additional Securities;
     (3) the date or dates, or the method by which such date or dates will be determined or extended, on which the principal (and premium, if any) of the Securities of the series shall be payable;
     (4) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, whether such Securities shall be issued with original issue discount or at a percentage of their principal amount, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest will be payable and the Regular Record Date, if any, for the interest payable on any Security on any Interest Payment Date, or the method by which such date shall be determined, and the basis upon which such interest shall be calculated if other than that of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
     (5) the place or places, if any, other than or in addition to the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable, Securities of the series maybe surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for the conversion or exchange, as applicable, and where notices or demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served;
     (6) the period or periods within which, or the date or dates on which, the price or prices at which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have the option;
     (7) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase Securities or the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, the price or prices at which, and other terms and condition upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
     (8) if other than the Trustee, the identity of each Security Registrar and/or Paying Agent;
     (9) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to or the method by which such portion shall be determined;
Section 5.02
 
     (10) whether the amount of payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any index, formula or other method, and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
     (11) provisions, if any, granting special rights to the Holders of Securities of the series upon the occurrence of such events as may be specified;
     (12) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants or other provisions (including any deletions from, modifications of or additions to any of the provisions of ) of the Company with respect to Securities of the series, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants or other provisions are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants or other provisions set forth herein;
Section 5.01
     (13) the applicability, if any, of and to the Securities of the series (and, in the case of , if applicable, any additional covenants subject to covenant defeasance) and any provisions in modification of, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of ;
Sections 4.02
4.03
Section 4.03
Article IV
     (14) if the Securities of such series are to be issuable in definite form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, then the form and/or terms of such certificates, documents or conditions;
     (15) the terms of any temporary securities, the provisions for deposit and withdrawal from a common depository and terms related thereto;
     (16) if the Securities of the series are to be secured or convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company), the terms and conditions upon which such Securities of the series will be so secured or convertible or exchangeable (including, without limitation, the initial conversion price or rate, the conversion period, the conversion agent, if any, adjustments of the applicable conversion price or rate and any requirements with respect to the reservation of shares or Securities for purposes of conversion);
     (17) whether the Securities shall be bearer securities and, if so, any provisions related thereto;
     (18) whether the Securities will contain any transfer restrictions, and whether the Securities are to be issued pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, Regulation S under the Securities Act, a public offering or otherwise; and
     (19) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act).
 
          All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise by provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution (subject to ) and set forth in such Officers' Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series or to establish additional terms of such series of Securities (which additional terms shall only be applicable to unissued or additional Securities of such series).
Section 3.03
          If any of the terms of the Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions, a copy of an appropriate record of such action(s) shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the Securities of such series.
Section 3.02 .
DENOMINATIONS
          The Securities shall be issuable only in fully registered form without coupons and only in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, unless provided otherwise in a supplemental indenture with respect to any series of Securities.
Section 3.03 .
EXECUTION, AUTHENTICATION, DELIVERY AND DATING
          The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by one of its Chairman of the Board, its President, its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer or one of its Vice Presidents. The signatures of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
          Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signature of an individual who was at any time the proper officer of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such office at the date of such Securities.
          At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities; and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities as provided in this Indenture and not otherwise. In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive, and, subject to , shall be fully protected in relying upon:
Section 6.01
          (a) A copy of the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors in or pursuant to which the terms and form of the Securities were established, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect as of the date of such certificate, and if the
 
terms and form of such Securities are established by an Officers' Certificate pursuant to general authorization of the Board of Directors, such Officers' Certificate;
     (b) an executed supplemental indenture, if any;
     (c) an Officers' Certificate delivered in accordance with ; and
Section 1.03
     (d) an Opinion of Counsel which shall state;
     (1) that the form of such Securities has been established by a supplemental indenture or by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors in accordance with and and in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
Sections 2.01
2.02
     (2) that the terms of such Securities have been established in accordance with and in conformity with the other provisions of this Indenture;
Section 2.01
     (3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general equity principles; and
     (4) that all laws and requirements in respect of the execution and delivery by the Company of such Securities have been complied with.
          The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities under this Section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders.
          Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
          No Security endorsed thereon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
          Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of , in case the Company, pursuant to , shall, in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions, be consolidated, amalgamated, combined or merged with or into any other Person or shall sell, assign, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, and the successor Person resulting from such consolidation, amalgamation, or combination or surviving such merger, or into which the Company shall have been merged, or the successor Person which shall have participated in the sale,
Section 3.01
Article VIII
 
assignment, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition as aforesaid, shall have executed an indenture supplemental hereto with the Trustee pursuant to , any of the Securities authenticated or delivered prior to such consolidation, amalgamation, combination, merger, sale, assignment, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition may, from time to time, at the request of the successor Person, be exchanged for other Securities executed in the name of the successor Person with such changes in phraseology and form as may be appropriate, but otherwise in substance of like tenor as the Securities surrendered for such exchange and of like principal amount; and the Trustee, upon Company Request of the successor Person, shall authenticate and deliver Securities as specified in such request for the purpose of such exchange. If Securities shall at any time be authenticated and delivered in any new name of a successor Person pursuant to this in exchange or substitution for or upon registration of transfer of any Securities, such successor Person, at the option of the Holders but without expense to them, shall provide for the exchange of all Securities at the time Outstanding for Securities authenticated and delivered in such new name.
Article VIII
Section 3.03
          The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities on behalf of the Trustee. Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as any Security Registrar or Paying Agent to deal with the Company and its Affiliates.
          If an officer whose signature is on a Security no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates such Security such Security shall be valid nevertheless.
Section 3.04 .
TEMPORARY SECURITIES
          (a) Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
          (b) If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay, except to comply with applicable law. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to , without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
Section 10.02
 
          (c) The Securities may be issued as temporary global Securities for deposit with a Common Depository pursuant to terms set forth in a supplemental indenture.
Section 3.05 .
REGISTRATION, REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER AND EXCHANGE
          The Company shall cause the Trustee to keep, so long as it is the Security Registrar, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or such other office as the Trustee may designate, a register for each series of Securities (the register maintained in such office or in any other office or agency designated pursuant to being herein sometimes referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as the Security Registrar may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee shall initially be the "" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided. The Company may change the Security Registrar or appoint one or more co-Security Registrars without prior notice; provided that the Company shall promptly notify the Trustee if the Company changes the Security Registrar or appoints a co-Security Registrar.
Section 10.02
Security Register
Security Registrar
          Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security at the office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to , the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount.
Section 10.02
          Furthermore, any Holder of the Global Security shall, by acceptance of such Global Security, agree that transfers of beneficial interests in such Global Security may be effected only through a book-entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Security (or its agent), and that ownership of a beneficial interest in a Security shall be required to be reflected in a book entry.
          At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, Securities of the same series which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
          All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same Indebtedness, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
          Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer, or for exchange, repurchase or redemption, shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
          No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer, exchange or redemption of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to or not involving any transfer, except for any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
Sections 3.05
3.07
          The Company shall not be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of the Securities selected for redemption under and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of Securities being redeemed in part.
Section 11.04
          Any Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, any Global Security, whether pursuant to this , , , , 9 or or otherwise, shall also be a Global Security and bear the legend specified in hereto.
Section 3.05
Sections 3.04
3.06
3.07
.06
11.08
Exhibit A
Section 3.06 .
BOOK ENTRY PROVISIONS FOR GLOBAL SECURITIES
          The following provisions shall govern Global Securities except as set forth in an indenture supplemental hereto:
          (a) Each Global Security initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be deposited with, or on behalf of, the Depositary or with the Trustee as custodian for such Depositary and (iii) bear legends as set forth in hereto.
Exhibit A
          Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Security.
Agent Members
          (b) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (i) such Depositary (A) has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered as such under the Exchange Act, and in either case the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary, (ii) the Company, at its option, executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order stating that it elects to cause the issuance of the Securities in certificated form and that all Global
 
Securities shall be exchanged in whole for Securities that are not Global Securities (in which case, such exchange shall be effected by the Trustee) or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default.
          (c) If any Global Security is to be exchanged for other Securities or canceled in whole, it shall be surrendered by or on behalf of the Depositary or its nominee to the Trustee, as Security Registrar, for exchange or cancellation as provided in this . If any Global Security is to be exchanged for other Securities or canceled in part, or if another Security is to be exchanged in whole or in part for a beneficial interest in any Global Security, then either (i) such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or cancellation as provided in this or (ii) the principal amount thereof shall be reduced or increased by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged or canceled, or equal to the principal amount of such other Security to be so exchanged for a beneficial interest therein, as the case may be, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee, as Security Registrar, whereupon the Trustee, in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, shall instruct the Depositary or its authorized representative to make a corresponding adjustment to its records. Upon any such surrender or adjustment of a Global Security, the Trustee shall, subject to this and as otherwise provided in this , authenticate and deliver any Securities issuable in exchange for such Global Security (or any portion thereof) to or upon the order of, and registered in such names as may be directed by, the Depositary or its authorized representative. Upon the request of the Trustee in connection with the occurrence of any of the events specified in the preceding , the Company shall promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Securities that are not in the form of Global Securities. The Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon any order, direction or request of the Depositary or its authorized representative which is given or made pursuant to this if such order, direction or request is given or made in accordance with the Applicable Procedures.
Article III
Article III
Section 3.06(c)
Article III
Subsection (b)
Article III
          (d) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to this or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless such Security is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof.
Article III
          (e) The Depositary or its nominee, as registered owner of a Global Security, shall be the Holder of such Global Security for all purposes under this Indenture and the Securities, and owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security shall hold such interests pursuant to the Applicable Procedures. Accordingly, any such owner's beneficial interest in a Global Security will be shown only on, and the transfer of such interest shall be effected only through, records maintained by the Depositary or its nominee or its Agent Members.
          The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly
 
required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
          None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or any Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of Depositary records relating to, or payments made on account of, beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any Depositary records relating to such beneficial ownership interests, or for transfers of beneficial interests in the Securities or any transactions between the Depositary and beneficial owners.
Section 3.07 .
MUTILATED, DESTROYED, LOST AND STOLEN SECURITIES
          If (a) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (b) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee, such security or indemnity, in each case, as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon a Company Request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a replacement Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
          In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a replacement Security, pay or purchase such Security, as the case may be.
          Upon the issuance of any replacement Securities under this , the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to pay all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes or other governmental charges that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel) connected therewith.
Section 3.07
          Every replacement Security issued pursuant to this in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
Section 3.07
          The provisions of this are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
Section 3.07
Section 3.08 .
PAYMENT OF INTEREST; INTEREST RIGHTS PRESERVED
          Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of , interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on the Stated Maturity of such interest shall be
Section 3.01
 
paid to the Person in whose name the Security (or any Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest payment.
          Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of , any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on the Stated Maturity of such interest, and interest on such defaulted interest at the then applicable interest rate borne by the Securities, to the extent lawful (such defaulted interest and interest thereon herein collectively called ""), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the Regular Record Date; and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in or below:
Section 3.01
Defaulted Interest
Subsection (a)
(b)
          (a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or any relevant Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date (not less than 30 days after such notice) of the proposed payment (the ""), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the Special Payment Date, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this provided. Thereupon, the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the Special Payment Date and shall fix the Special Record Date not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of such Special Record Date. In the name and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date and Special Payment Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities are registered on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following .
Special Payment Date
Subsection (a)
Subsection (b)
          (b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by this Indenture not inconsistent with the requirements of such exchange, if, after written notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this , such payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subsection (b)
          (c) Any series of Securities may provide for changes in interest rates or changes in spreads and any changes in redemption provisions in connection therewith or
 
changes in maturity to the extent set forth in a supplemental Indenture with respect to such Securities.
          Subject to the foregoing provisions of this , each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 3.08
Section 3.09 .
CUSIP NUMBERS
          The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and the Company, or the Trustee on behalf of the Company, shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders; provided, however, that any such notice shall state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of redemption or exchange and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities; and provided further, however, that failure to use CUSIP numbers in any notice of redemption or exchange shall not affect the validity or sufficiency of such notice. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
Section 3.10 .
PERSONS DEEMED OWNERS
          Prior to and at the time of due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company, or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to ) interest on, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Section 3.08
Section 3.11 .
CANCELLATION
          All Securities surrendered for payment, purchase, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange shall be delivered to the Trustee and, if not already canceled, shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this , except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall, upon written request of the Company, be disposed in accordance with the Trustee's standard procedures, unless by a Company Order received by the Trustee prior to such disposition, the Company shall direct that the canceled Securities be returned to it. The Trustee shall provide the Company a list of all Securities that have been canceled from time to time as requested by the Company.
Section 3.11
 
Section 3.12 .
COMPUTATION OF INTEREST
          Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by with respect to Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
Section 3.01
Section 4.01 .
APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE; COMPANY'S OPTION TO EFFECT DEFEASANCE OR COVENANT DEFEASANCE
          If pursuant to provision is made for either or both of (a) defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under or (b) covenant defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under , then the provisions of such Section or Sections, as the case may be, together with the other provisions of this (with such modifications thereto as may be specified pursuant to with respect to any Securities), shall be applicable to such Securities, and the Company may at its option by Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to such Securities, elect to have (if applicable) or (if applicable) be applied to such Outstanding Securities (the "") upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this .
Section 3.01
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
Article IV
Section 3.01
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
Defeased Securities
Article IV
Section 4.02 .
DEFEASANCE AND DISCHARGE
          Upon the Company's exercise of the option applicable to this with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company and any other obligor upon the applicable series of Securities, if any, shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Defeased Securities on the date the conditions set forth in below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company and any other obligor under this Indenture shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the Defeased Securities, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such series of Securities and this Indenture insofar as such series of Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company and upon Company Request, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of Defeased Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, such series of Securities, when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Defeased Securities under , , , , and , (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, including, without limitation, the Trustee's rights under , and (d) this . Subject to compliance with this
Section 4.02
Section 4.04
defeasance
Section 4.05
Section 4.04
Sections 3.03
3.04
3.05
3.07
10.02
10.03
Section 6.07
Article IV
 
, the Company may exercise its option under this notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under with respect to a series of Securities.
Article IV
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
Section 4.03 .
COVENANT DEFEASANCE
          Upon the Company's exercise of the option applicable to this with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under any covenant or provision contained or referred to in , and and any other covenant or provision if specified pursuant to , with respect to the Defeased Securities, on and after the date the conditions set forth in below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Defeased Securities shall thereafter be deemed to be not "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder, and the Events of Default under and and any Event of Default specified to be covered by this for a series in accordance with shall cease to be in full force and effect with respect to the applicable series of Securities. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the Defeased Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under and but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Defeased Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
Section 4.03
Sections 10.05
10.06
10.07
Section 3.01
Section 4.04
covenant defeasance
Section 5.01(d)
(e)
Section 4.03
Section 3.01
Section 5.01(d)
(e)
Section 4.04 .
CONDITIONS TO DEFEASANCE OR COVENANT DEFEASANCE
          The following shall be the conditions to application of either or to the Defeased Securities of or within a series:
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
     (1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such series of Securities, (a) cash in United States dollars in an amount, (b) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms and with no further reinvestment will provide, not later than one day before the due date of payment, money in an amount, or (c) a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee to pay and discharge, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Defeased Securities, on the Stated Maturity of such principal or interest. For this purpose, "" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the timely payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or
U.S. Government Obligations
 
instrumentality of the United States of America the timely payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act), as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt;
     (2) In the case of an election under , the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States shall confirm that, the Holders and beneficial owners of the Outstanding Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred;
Section 4.02
     (3) In the case of an election under , the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States to the effect that the Holders and beneficial owners of the Outstanding Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred;
Section 4.03
     (4) No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or insofar as is concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period);
Section 5.01(f)
     (5) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is a party or by which it is bound;
     (6) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, unless such trust shall be registered under such Act or exempt from registration thereunder;
 
     (7) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States to the effect that after the 91st day following the deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally;
     (8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the holders of the applicable series of Securities over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others;
     (9) No event or condition shall exist that would prevent the Company from making payments of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the applicable series of Securities on the date of such deposit or at any time ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit; and
     (10) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Independent Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under or the covenant defeasance under (as the case may be) have been complied with.
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
          Opinions of Counsel or Opinions of Independent Counsel required to be delivered under this shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and may have qualifications customary for opinions of the type required and counsel delivering such opinions may rely on certificates of the Company or government or other officials customary for opinions of the type required, which certificates shall be limited as to matters of fact, including that various financial covenants have been complied with.
Section 4.04
          Notwithstanding any other provisions of this , such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions and limitations which may be imposed by the Company in connection therewith pursuant to .
Article IV
Section 3.01
          Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of , all United States dollars and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee pursuant to in respect of the Defeased Securities of any series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such series of Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (excluding the Company or any of its Affiliates acting as Paying Agent), as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such series of Securities of all sums due and to
Section 10.03
Section 4.04
 
become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
          Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Security pursuant to , the Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is imposed, assessed or for the account of the Holders of the Defeased Securities.
Section 3.01
Section 4.04
          Anything in this to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any United States dollars or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect defeasance or covenant defeasance.
Article IV
Section 4.04
Section 4.06 .
REINSTATEMENT
          If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with or , as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the applicable series of Securities shall be revived and reinstated, with present and prospective effect, as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to or , as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such United States dollars or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with or , as the case may be; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment to the Trustee or Paying Agent of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall promptly pay any such amount to the Holders of the Securities of such series and the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such series of Securities to receive such payment from the United States dollars and U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee or Paying Agent pursuant to or .
Section 4.02
4.03
Section 4.02
4.03
Section 4.02
4.03
Section 4.02
4.03
Section 5.01 .
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
          "," wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body) with respect to a particular series of Securities except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of :
Event of Default
Section 3.01
 
          (a) there shall be a default in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of such series when it becomes due and payable, and such default shall continue for a period of 30 days;
          (b) there shall be a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any of the Securities of such series when it becomes due and payable, whether at Maturity, upon redemption by declaration or otherwise;
          (c) there shall be a breach of of this Indenture, and such breach shall continue for a period of 365 days after written notice to the Company specifying such failure and requiring the Company to remedy the same has been given, by certified mail, (x) to the Company by the Trustee or (y) to the Company and the Trustee by holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
Section 10.07
          (d) there shall be a default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company applicable to such series of Securities (other than a default in the performance, or breach, of a covenant or agreement which is specifically dealt with in , and ) and such default or breach shall continue for a period of 60 days after written notice to the Company specifying such failure and requiring the Company to remedy the same has been given, by certified mail, (x) to the Company by the Trustee or (y) to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
Subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
          (e) any Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with an aggregate principal amount outstanding of at least $25,000,000 shall not have been paid when due and shall continue not to be paid for 25 days after written notice by certified mail, (x) to the Company by the Trustee or (y) to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
          (f) (i) there shall have been the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or of any substantial part of their respective properties, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of their affairs, and any such decree or order for relief shall continue to be in effect, or any such other decree or order shall be unstayed and in effect, for a period of 60 consecutive days or (ii) (A) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary commences a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent, (B) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary consents to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or to the commencement of any
 
bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, (C) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, (D) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (1) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of, or taking possession by, a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary or of any substantial part of their respective properties, (2) makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or (3) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due or (E) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary takes any corporate action in furtherance of any such actions in this ; or
Subsection (f)(ii)
          (g) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
Section 5.02 .
ACCELERATION OF MATURITY; RESCISSION AND ANNULMENT
          If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in ) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, shall occur and be continuing, unless the principal and interest with respect to all of the Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% aggregate in principal amount of the Securities of that series (with each affected series voting as a separate class) then Outstanding may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare all unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on all Securities of that series affected thereby to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders of the Securities) and upon any such declaration, such principal, premium, if any, and interest shall become due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in of occurs and is continuing, unless the principal and interest with respect to the Securities shall have already become due and payable, then the Securities of all series shall ipso facto become and be due and payable immediately in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Securities, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date the Securities become due and payable, without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Thereupon, the Trustee may, at its discretion, proceed to protect and enforce the rights of the Holders of the Securities by appropriate judicial proceedings.
Section 5.01(f)
Subsection (f)
Section 5.01
          Unless otherwise provided pursuant to , in the event of a declaration of acceleration because of an Event of Default set forth in of has occurred and is continuing, such declaration of acceleration shall be automatically rescinded and annulled if the event of default triggering such Event of Default pursuant to of shall be remedied or cured by the Company or the relevant Subsidiary or waived by the holders of the relevant Indebtedness within 60 days after the declaration of acceleration with respect thereto.
Section 3.01
Subsection (e)
Section 5.01
Subsection (e)
Section 5.01
          At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to any of the Securities of any series, but before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this provided, the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any affected series
Article V
 
(with each affected series voting as a separate class), by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
          (a) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay:
     (1) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee under this Indenture and the reasonable compensation, fees and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel,
     (2) all overdue interest on all Outstanding Securities of such series,
     (3) the principal of and premium, if any, on any Outstanding Securities of such series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate borne by such series of Securities, and
     (4) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate borne by the applicable series of Securities;
          (b) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and
          (c) all Events of Default, other than the non-payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the applicable series of Securities which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in . No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.13
Section 5.03 .
COLLECTION OF INDEBTEDNESS AND SUITS FOR ENFORCEMENT BY TRUSTEE
          The Company covenants that if
          (a) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security of any series when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
          (b) default is made in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, on any Security of any series at the Stated Maturity thereof or otherwise, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such series of Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on the Securities of such series for principal and premium, if any, and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate borne by the Securities of such series; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
          If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, wherever situated.
          If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders under this Indenture by such appropriate private or judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein or therein, or to enforce any other proper remedy or to enforce any other proper remedy, subject however to . No recovery of any such judgment upon any property of the Company shall affect or impair any rights, powers or remedies of the Trustee or the Holders.
Section 5.12
Section 5.04 .
TRUSTEE MAY FILE PROOFS OF CLAIM
          In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of any series or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of such series of Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
          (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal, and premium, if any, and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities of any series and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
          (b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, fees and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under .
Section 6.07
 
          Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of any series or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
          For purposes of this , the Trustee is hereby designated as the attorney-in-fact for the Holders.
Section 5.04
Section 5.05 .
TRUSTEE MAY ENFORCE CLAIMS WITHOUT POSSESSION OF SECURITIES
          All rights of action and claims under this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities of such series or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, fees and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Section 5.06 .
APPLICATION OF MONEY COLLECTED
          Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this or otherwise on behalf of the Holders or the Trustee pursuant to this or through any proceeding or any arrangement or restructuring in anticipation or in lieu of any proceeding contemplated by this shall be applied, subject to applicable law, in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal, premium, if any, or interest, upon presentation of the several Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Article V
Article V
Article V
     FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under ;
Section 6.07
     SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon the Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, on the Securities of such series in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, such payments to be made ratably to the Persons entitled thereto, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest; and
     THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto, including the Company, provided that all sums due and owing to the Holders and the Trustee have been paid in full as required by this Indenture.
 
Section 5.07 .
LIMITATION ON SUITS
          No Holder of any series of Securities shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture or any series of Securities, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
          (a) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
          (b) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as trustee hereunder;
          (c) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, fees and expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
          (d) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer (and, if requested, provision) of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
          (e) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the affected series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture or any Security of any series to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture or any Security of any series, except in the manner provided in this Indenture and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the Holders.
Section 5.08 .
UNCONDITIONAL RIGHT OF HOLDERS TO RECEIVE PRINCIPAL, PREMIUM AND INTEREST
          Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right based on the terms stated herein, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to ) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repurchase, on the Redemption Date or the repurchase date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 3.08
Section 5.09 .
RESTORATION OF RIGHTS AND REMEDIES
          If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for
 
any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case the Company, any other obligor on the Securities, the Trustee and the Holders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Section 5.10 .
RIGHTS AND REMEDIES CUMULATIVE
          No right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Section 5.11 .
DELAY OR OMISSION NOT WAIVER
          No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Article V
Section 5.12 .
CONTROL BY HOLDERS
          The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of any series of Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee under this with respect to such series, provided that:
Article V
          (a) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture (including, without limitation, ), expose the Trustee to personal liability or be unduly prejudicial to Holders not joining therein; and
Section 5.07
          (b) subject to the provisions of Section 315 of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
Section 5.13 .
WAIVER OF PAST DEFAULTS
          Prior to the acceleration of the maturity of any series of the Securities, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities of any such series waive any past Default or Event of Default and its consequences, except a Default or Event of Default:
 
          (a) in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security (which may only be waived with the consent of each Holder of Securities of such series affected); or
          (b) in respect of a covenant or a provision hereof which under this Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Security of such series Outstanding affected by such modification or amendment.
          Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.14 .
UNDERTAKING FOR COSTS
          All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant, but the provisions of this shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any Security on or after the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
Section 5.14
Section 5.15 .
WAIVER OF STAY, EXTENSION OR USURY LAWS
          The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities contemplated herein or in the Securities or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Section 5.16 .
REMEDIES SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAW
          All rights, remedies and powers provided by this may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof does not violate any applicable provision of law
Article V
 
in the premises, and all the provisions of this Indenture are intended to be subject to all applicable mandatory provisions of law which may be controlling in the premises and to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Indenture invalid, unenforceable or not entitled to be recorded, registered or filed under the provisions of any applicable law.
Section 6.01 .
DUTIES OF TRUSTEE
          Subject to the provisions of Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through 315(d):
          (a) if a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs;
          (b) except during the continuance of a Default or an Event of Default:
     (1) the Trustee need perform only those duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no covenants or obligations shall be implied in this Indenture against the Trustee; and
     (2) in the absence of bad faith or willful misconduct on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions which by any provision hereof are required to be furnished to the Trustee, to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein);
          (c) the Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
     (1) this does not limit the effect of of this ;
Subsection (c)
Subsection (b)
Section 6.01
     (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
     (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith, in accordance with a direction of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series
 
relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power confirmed upon the Trustee under this Indenture;
          (d) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it;
          (e) whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to , , and of this ; and
Subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Section 6.01
          (f) the Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money or assets received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Assets held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other assets except to the extent required by law.
Section 6.02 .
NOTICE OF DEFAULTS
          Within 90 days after a Responsible Officer of the Trustee receives actual notice of the occurrence of any Default, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders and any other Persons entitled to receive reports pursuant to Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such Default hereunder actually known to the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a trust committee of Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders.
Section 6.03 .
CERTAIN RIGHTS OF TRUSTEE
          Subject to the provisions of hereof and Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through 315(d):
Section 6.01
          (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon receipt by it of any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of Indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
          (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
 
          (c) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and any advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
          (d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
          (e) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion, rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture other than any liabilities arising out of the negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of the Trustee;
          (f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, approval, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, coupon, security or other paper or document unless requested in writing to do so by the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series then Outstanding; provided that, if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it against such expenses or liabilities as a condition to proceeding; the reasonable expenses of every such investigation so requested by the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities Outstanding of an affected series shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee, shall be repaid by the Company upon demand; provided, further, the Trustee in its discretion may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may deem fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
          (g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
          (h) the Trustee shall not be required to take notice, and shall not be deemed to have notice, of any Default or Event of Default hereunder, except Events of Default described in and of hereof, unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall be notified specifically of the Default or Event of Default on a written instrument or document received by the Trustee at its Notice Address by the Company or by the Holders of at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of any
Subsections (a)
(b)
Section 5.01
 
Securities of any series then outstanding and affected and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture. In the absence of delivery of notice satisfying those requirements, the Trustee may assume conclusively that there is no Default or Event of Default, except as noted above;
          (i) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
          (j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed by the Trustee to act hereunder;
          (k) in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action; and
          (l) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
Section 6.04 .
TRUSTEE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR RECITALS, DISPOSITIONS OF SECURITIES OR APPLICATION OF PROCEEDS THEREOF
          The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in any Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 to be supplied to the Company will be true and accurate subject to the qualifications set forth therein. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
Section 6.05 .
TRUSTEE AND AGENTS MAY HOLD SECURITIES; COLLECTIONS; ETC
          The Trustee, any Paying Agent, Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities, with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent and, subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 310 and 311, may otherwise deal with the Company and receive, collect, hold and retain collections from the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
 
Section 6.06 .
MONEY HELD IN TRUST
          All moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds, except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law. Except for funds or securities deposited with the Trustee pursuant to , the Trustee shall be required to invest all moneys received by the Trustee, until used or applied as herein provided, in Temporary Cash Investments in accordance with the written directions of the Company.
Article IV
          In the event of a loss on the sale of such investments (after giving effect to any interest or other income thereon except to the extent theretofore paid to the Company), the Trustee shall have no responsibility in respect of such loss except that the Trustee shall notify the Company of the amount of such loss and the Company shall promptly pay such amount to the Trustee to be credited as part of the moneys originally invested.
Section 6.07 .
COMPENSATION AND INDEMNIFICATION OF TRUSTEE AND ITS PRIOR CLAIM
          The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, such compensation as agreed to in writing by the Company and the Trustee and reasonable compensation for all other services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of all express trust), and the Company covenants and agrees to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee upon its request for all reasonable fees, expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by or on behalf of the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture and as agreed upon in the fee agreement between the Trustee and the Company (including the reasonable compensation and the fees, expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all agents and other persons not regularly in its employ); except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct. The Company also covenants and agrees to indemnify the Trustee and its directors, officers, agents and employees and each predecessor Trustee (the "") for, and to hold them harmless against, any claim, loss, liability, damage, tax, assessment or other governmental charge (other than taxes applicable to the Trustee's compensation hereunder) or expense incurred without negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Indenture or the trusts hereunder and its duties hereunder, including enforcement of this and also including any liability which the Indemnitees may incur as a result of failure to withhold, pay or report any tax, assessment, fine, penalty, damages or other governmental charge, and the costs, fees and expenses of defending itself against or investigating any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The obligations of the Company under this to compensate and indemnify the Indemnitees and each predecessor Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee for reasonable fees, expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute an additional obligation hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee.
Indemnitees
Section 6.07
Section 6.07
 
          The Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities as to all property and funds held by it hereunder for any amount owing it or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to this , except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities.
Section 6.07
          When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in , the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
Section 5.01(e)
Section 6.08 .
CONFLICTING INTERESTS
          The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
Section 6.09 .
TRUSTEE ELIGIBILITY
          There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as trustee under Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and which shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, to the extent there is an institution eligible and willing to serve. If the Trustee does not have a Corporate Trust Office in The City of New York, the Trustee may appoint an agent in The City of New York reasonably acceptable to the Company to conduct any activities which the Trustee may be required under this Indenture to conduct in The City of New York. If such Trustee publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of federal, state, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this , the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this .
Section 6.09
Section 6.09
Article VI
Section 6.10 .
RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL; APPOINTMENT OF SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE
          (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor trustee pursuant to this shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee under .
Article VI
Section 6.11
          (b) The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may at any time resign by giving written notice thereof to the Company no later than 30 Business Days prior to the proposed date of resignation. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee by written instrument executed by authority of the Board of Directors of the Company, a copy of which shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and a copy to the successor trustee. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee, at the expense of the Company,
 
or any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper, appoint and prescribe a successor trustee.
          (c) The Trustee may be removed with respect to any particular series of Securities at any time for any cause or for no cause by an Act of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
          (d) If at any time:
     (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b) after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months,
     (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
Section 6.09
     (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee, or (ii) subject to , the Holder of any Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
Section 5.14
          (e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor trustee and shall comply with the applicable requirements of . If, within 60 days after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, the Company has not appointed a successor Trustee with respect to Securities of a series, a successor trustee shall be appointed by the Act of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders of the Securities and accepted appointment in the manner provided herein, the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, or the Holder of any Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, subject to , on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to Securities of a series.
Section 6.11
Section 5.14
 
          (f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor trustee by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of Securities as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office or agent hereunder.
          Every successor trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee as if originally named as Trustee hereunder; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or the successor trustee, upon payment of its charges pursuant to then unpaid, such retiring Trustee shall pay over to the successor trustee all moneys, Temporary Cash Investments and other property relating thereto at the time held by it hereunder and shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all such rights, powers, duties and obligations. Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights and powers.
Section 6.07
          No successor trustee with respect to the Securities shall accept appointment as provided in this unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be eligible to act as trustee under the provisions of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and this and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and have a Corporate Trust Office or an agent selected in accordance with .
Section 6.11
Article VI
Section 6.09
          In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustee co-trustees of the same trust and that such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by an other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided
 
therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
          Upon acceptance of appointment by any successor trustee as provided in this , the Company shall give notice thereof to the Holders of the Securities, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register. If the acceptance of appointment is substantially contemporaneous with the appointment, then the notice called for by the preceding sentence may be combined with the notice called for by . If the Company fails to give such notice within 10 days after acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be given at the expense of the Company.
Section 6.11
Section 6.10
          Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee (including the trust created by this Indenture) shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be eligible under Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and this and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and have a Corporate Trust Office or an agent selected in accordance with , without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.
Article VI
Section 6.09
          In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and, in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor trustee; and in all such cases such certificate shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; provided that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
          If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or other obligor under the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other
 
obligor). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Trust Indenture Act Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein, as qualified by Trust Indenture Act Section 311(b).
          At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Any such appointment shall be evidenced by an instrument in writing signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, a copy of which instrument shall be promptly furnished to the Company. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company and, except as may otherwise be provided pursuant to , shall at all times be a bank or trust company or corporation organized and doing business and in good standing under the laws of the United States of America or of any State or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authorities. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this , the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. In case at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this .
Section 3.01
Section 6.14
Section 6.14
Section 6.14
          Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this , without the execution or filing of any paper or further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
Section 6.14
          An Authenticating Agent for any series of Securities may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee for such series and to the Company. The Trustee for any series of Securities may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case of any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in
 
accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee for such series may appoint a successor Authenticating agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve in the manner set forth in . Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent herein. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this .
Section 6.14
Section 1.07
Section 6.14
          The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation including reimbursement of its reasonable expenses for its services under this .
Section 6.14
          If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this , the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to or in lieu of the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication substantially in the following form:
Section 6.14
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
          (a) The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
          (b) The indenture dated as of December 23, 1998, for Allied Waste North America, Inc.'s, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, 6 1/2% Senior Notes due 2010, 5 3/4% Senior Notes due 2011, 6 3/8% Senior Notes due 2011, 7 7/8% Senior Notes due 2013, 6 1/8% Senior Notes due 2014, 7 3/8% Senior Notes due 2014, 7 1/4% Senior Notes due 2015, 7 1/8% Senior Notes due 2016, 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2017 between Allied Waste North America, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (f/k/a U.S. Bank Trust National Association) and the indenture dated as of April 20, 2004, for Allied Waste Industries, Inc.'s, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, 4 1/4% Senior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2034 between Allied Waste Industries, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (f/k/a U.S. Bank Trust National Association) shall be deemed to be specifically described herein for the purposes of clause (i) of the first proviso contained in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
          (a) For the purpose of meeting any legal requirements of any jurisdiction in which the Company may at the time be located in connection with the enforcement of any
 
right or the taking of any action on behalf of the Holders of any Securities issued hereunder, the Trustee shall have the power and may execute and deliver all instruments necessary to appoint one or more Persons to act as a co-trustee or co-trustees, or separate trustee or separate trustees, such powers, duties, obligations, rights and trusts as the Trustee may consider necessary or desirable. Each co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be required to meet the terms of eligibility as a trustee under . The Trustee shall promptly notify the Holders and the Company of the appointment of a co-trustee or separate trustee under this .
Section 6.09
Section 6.16
          (b) Every separate trustee and co-trustee shall, to the extent permitted by law, be appointed and act subject to the following provisions and conditions:
     (1) all rights, powers, duties and obligations conferred or imposed upon the Trustee shall be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Trustee and such separate trustee or co-trustee jointly (it being understood that such separate trustee or co-trustee is not authorized to act separately without the Trustee joining in such act), except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act or acts are to be performed the Trustee shall be incompetent or unqualified to perform such act or acts, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed singly by such separate trustee or co-trustee, but solely at the direction of the Trustee;
     (2) no trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of any other trustee hereunder;
     (3) the Trustee may at any time accept the resignation of or remove any separate trustee or co-trustee;
     (4) any notice, request or other writing given to the Trustee shall be deemed to have been given to each of the then separate trustees and co-trustees, as effectively as if given to each of them. Every instrument appointing any separate trustee or co-trustees, as effectively as if given to each of them. Every instrument appointing any separate trustee or co-trustee shall refer to this Indenture and the conditions of this . Each separate trustee and co-trustee, upon its acceptance of the trusts conferred, shall be vested with the estates or property specified in its instrument of appointment, either jointly with the trustee or separately, as may be provided therein, subject to all the provisions of this Indenture, specifically including every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct of, affecting the liability of, or affording protection or rights (including the rights to compensation, reimbursement and indemnification hereunder) to, the Trustee. Every such instrument shall be filed with the Trustee; and
Article VI
     (5) any separate trustee or co-trustee may at any time constitute the Trustee its agent or attorney-in-fact with full power and authority, to the extent not prohibited by law, to do any lawful act under or in respect of this Indenture on its behalf and in its name for the purposes of enforcing any rights or taking any other action on behalf of the Holders of any Securities issued hereunder.
 
          The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
          (a) semiannually, not more than 10 days after each Regular Record Date, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of such Regular Record Date; and
          (b) at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content to that in hereof as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
Subsection (a)
provided, however, that if and so long as the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar, no such list need be furnished.
          Holders may communicate pursuant to Trust Indenture Act Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities, and the Trustee shall comply with Trust Indenture Act Section 312(b). The Company, the Trustee, the Security Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of Trust Indenture Act Section 312(c).
          Further, every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee or any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with Trust Indenture Act Section 312, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Trust Indenture Act Section 312.
          (a) Within 60 days after May 1 of each year commencing with the first May 1 after the issuance of Securities, the Trustee, if so required under the Trust Indenture Act, shall transmit by mail to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such May 1 in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c), a brief report in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(b)(2).
 
          (b) A copy of each report transmitted to Holders pursuant to this shall, at the time of such transmission, be mailed to the Company and filed with each stock exchange, if any, upon which the Securities are listed and also with the Commission. The Company will notify the Trustee promptly if the Securities are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
Section 7.03
          The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission.
          The Trustee shall be under no obligation to analyze or make any credit decision with respect to any financial statements or reports received by it hereunder, but shall hold such financial statements or reports solely for the benefit of and/or review by the holders of the Securities.
          Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee hereunder and under is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
Section 10.07
          The Company will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in compliance (without regard to periods of grace or notice requirements) with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture, and if the Company shall not be in compliance, specifying such non-compliance and the nature and status thereof of which such signers may have knowledge.
          The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or Default and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
          If Securities of a series are issued with original issue discount, upon request of the Trustee, the Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods), if any, accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
          In the event that the Company is required to pay additional interest to holders of Securities of any series pursuant to a registration rights agreement, the Company will provide written notice (an "") to the Trustee of its obligation to pay additional interest no later than fifteen days prior to the proposed payment date for the additional interest, and the Additional Interest Notice shall set forth the amount of additional interest to be paid by the Company on such payment date. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Securities to determine the additional interest, or with respect to the nature, extent, or calculation of the amount of additional interest owed, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the additional interest.
Additional Interest Notice
          The Company will not, in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions, consolidate, amalgamate, combine or merge with or into any other Person or, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person or group of Persons, or permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to enter into any such transaction or series of transactions, if such transaction or series of transactions, in the aggregate, would result in a sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or disposition of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis to any other Person or group of Persons, unless at the time and after giving effect thereto:
          (a) either (1) the Company will be the continuing corporation in the case of a merger, combination or consolidation or (2) the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or the resulting, surviving or transferee Person, if other than the Company (the ""), will be a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and such Person expressly assumes, by a supplemental indenture, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture, including the payment of all amounts due on the Securities and the performance of the covenants under this Indenture and any supplemental indenture
Successor Company
 
related to such Securities and in each case, the Securities and the Indenture will remain in full force and effect as so supplemented;
          (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction or series of transactions on a pro forma basis, including, without limitation, any Indebtedness Incurred or anticipated to be Incurred in connection with or in respect of such transaction or series of transactions, no Default or Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing and the Company will have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to that effect; and
          (c) at the time of the transaction the Company or the Successor Company will have delivered, or caused to be delivered, to the Trustee, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each to the effect that such transaction or series of transactions, and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction or series of transactions to effectuate such assumption, such supplemental indenture in respect thereof, comply with this covenant and that all conditions precedent in the Indenture relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
          If under the aforementioned circumstances, the Company's properties or assets become subject to a Lien not permitted by the Indenture, the Company will equally and ratably secure the Securities.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Restricted Subsidiary may consolidate, amalgamate or combine with or merge with or into or, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to the Company or, subject to the condition set forth in in the preceding sentence, to any other Restricted Subsidiary or any other Subsidiary that would, upon completion of such transactions, be a Restricted Subsidiary.
Subsection (b)
          Upon any consolidation, amalgamation, combination or merger, or any sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, if any, in accordance with , the successor Person formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which the Company is merged or the successor Person to which such sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture and the Securities with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein, in the Securities and the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities; provided that in the case of a transfer by lease, the predecessor shall not be released from the payment of principal and interest on the Securities.
Section 8.01
 
          Without the consent of any Holders, the Company and any other obligor under the Securities when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto or agreements or other instruments with respect to the Indenture or any series of the Securities, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
          (a) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company pursuant to the provisions of and the assumption by such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities;
Article VIII
          (b) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company.
          (c) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company by the Indenture, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions for the protection of the Holders as the Board of Directors of the Company shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders, and to make the occurrence, or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any of such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions, or provisions a Default or an Event of Default under the Indenture (and if such Default or Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Defaults or Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) (provided, however, that with respect to any such additional restriction, condition, or provision, such supplemental indenture may provide for a period of grace after default, which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other Defaults, may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such Default, may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such Default, or may limit the right of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of any series of the Securities for which such additional Events of Default apply to waive such Default);
          (d) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision;
          (e) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of such indenture supplement, if applicable;
 
          (f) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by and , which is not yet issued;
Sections 2.01
3.01
          (g) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the Indenture, in any supplemental indenture or in the Securities of any series that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or therein, to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under the Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holders;
          (h) to modify or amend the Indenture in such a manner as to permit the qualification of the Indenture or any supplemental indenture under the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect;
          (i) to comply with the provisions of ;
Article VIII
          (j) to add guarantees with respect to any series of the Securities of any series or to secure any series of the Securities of any series;
          (k) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
          (l) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to or ; provided that any such actions shall not adversely affect the interests of Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities in any material respect; and
Sections 4.02
4.03
          (m) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor or separate Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the Indenture by more than one Trustee.
          Except as permitted by or as provided pursuant to , with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series of Securities, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company when authorized by Board Resolutions, and the Trustee may (i) enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto or agreements in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, for the purpose of adding any provisions to, amending, modifying or changing in any manner, or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture with respect to such series, of any supplemental indenture with respect to such series or the Securities of such series (including but not limited to, for the purpose of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of such series under this Indenture with respect to such series or the Securities of such series) or (ii) waive compliance with any provision in the Indenture with respect to such series or the Securities
Section 9.01
Section 3.01
 
of such series (other than waivers of past defaults covered by and waivers of covenants covered by ); provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected thereby:
Section 5.13
Section 10.08
          (a) reduce the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults;
          (b) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest on the Securities of such series or reduce the amount of any payment of interest on the Securities of such series;
          (c) reduce the principal of or change the Stated Maturity of the Securities of such series;
          (d) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of the Securities of such series or change the time at which the Securities of such series may or shall be redeemed;
          (e) impair the right to institute suit for enforcement of any payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of such series after the Stated Maturity thereof (or in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date);
          (f) make the Securities of such series payable in a currency other than U.S. dollars;
          (g) change the place where any Security or any premium or interest or any other amount is payable;
          (h) modify any of the provisions of this or or , except to increase the percentage of such Outstanding Securities of such series required for such actions or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each such Security of such series affected thereby;
Section 9.02
Section 5.13
10.08
          (i) amend or modify any of the provisions of this Indenture in any manner which subordinates the Securities of such series issued in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company;
          (j) release any security that may have been granted with respect to the Securities of such series; or
          (k) make any change in the provisions of the Indenture relating to waivers of defaults or amendments that require unanimous consent.
 
          Upon the written request of the Company, accompanied by a copy of Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture.
          It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 9.02
          A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of Holders with respect to such covenant or other provisions, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of any other series.
Section 9.03 .
EXECUTION OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES AND AGREEMENTS
          In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture, agreement, instrument or waiver permitted by this or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through 315(d) and hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument (a) is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and (b) to the knowledge of the officer executing the Officers' Certificate and to the knowledge of the legal counsel delivering the Opinion of Counsel, as the case may be, does not violate the provisions of any agreement or instrument evidencing any other Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Article IX
Section 6.01
Section 9.04 .
EFFECT OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
          Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this , this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities of the series affected thereby theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Article IX
Section 9.05 .
CONFORMITY WITH TRUST INDENTURE ACT
          Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Article IX
 
Section 9.06 .
REFERENCE IN SECURITIES TO SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
          Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Article IX
Section 9.07 .
NOTICE OF SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
          Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of , the Company shall give notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security of any series affected, in the manner provided for in , setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
Section 9.02
Section 1.07
Section 10.01 .
PAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL, PREMIUM AND INTEREST
          The Company shall duly and punctually pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on each of the series of Securities in accordance with the terms of the applicable series of the Securities and this Indenture. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to , payments for any Securities may be made by check or wire transfer.
Section 3.01
Section 10.02 .
MAINTENANCE OF OFFICE OR AGENCY
          The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment. The Company also will maintain in The City of New York an office or agency where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, redemption or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The office of the Trustee's Affiliate located at 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, New York 10005, will be such office or agency of the Company, unless the Company shall designate and maintain some other office or agency for one or more of such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location and any change in the location of any such offices or agencies. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required offices or agencies or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the office of the Trustee or its Affiliates and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee or its Affiliates such agent as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
          The Company may from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or outside of The City of New York) where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designation. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any change in the location of any such office or agency.
          The Trustee shall initially act as Paying Agent for the Securities.
Section 10.03 .
MONEY FOR SECURITY PAYMENTS TO BE HELD IN TRUST
          If the Company or any of its Affiliates shall at any time act as Paying Agent, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
          If the Company or any of its Affiliates is not acting as Paying Agent, the Company will, on or before 10:00 a.m. New York City time of each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum in same day funds sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of such action or any failure so to act.
          If the Company is not acting as Paying Agent, the Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this , that such Paying Agent will:
Section 10.03
          (a) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
          (b) give the Trustee prompt notice of any Default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities;
          (c) at any time during the continuance of any such Default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent; and
          (d) acknowledge, accept and agree to comply in all aspects with the provisions of this Indenture relating to the duties, rights and liabilities of such Paying Agent.
          The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such
 
Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
          Except as otherwise provided in the Securities of any series, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall promptly be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the NEW YORK TIMES and THE WALL STREET JOURNAL (national edition), and mail to each such Holder, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification, publication and mailing, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will promptly be repaid to the Company.
Section 10.04 .
CORPORATE EXISTENCE
          Subject to , the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect the corporate existence and related rights and franchises (charter and statutory) of the Company and each Restricted Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise or the corporate existence of any such Restricted Subsidiary or any trademark, trade name or service mark of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary if the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer necessary or desirable in the conduct or the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the ability of the Company to perform its obligations hereunder.
Article VIII
Section 10.05 .
RESTRICTIONS ON LIENS
          (a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to, Incur any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, whether such shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or Principal Property is owned at the date of the Indenture or thereafter acquired, without in any such case effectively providing that all the Securities will be directly secured equally and ratably with such Lien.
          (b) The foregoing restrictions will not apply to:
 
     (1) the Incurrence of any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property acquired after the date of the Indenture (including acquisitions by way of merger or consolidation) by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary contemporaneously with such acquisition, or within 120 days thereafter, to secure or provide for the payment or financing of any part of the purchase price thereof, or the assumption of any Lien upon any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property acquired after the date of the Indenture existing at the time of such acquisition, or the acquisition of any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property subject to any Lien without the assumption thereof, provided that every such Lien referred to in this shall attach only to the shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property so acquired and fixed improvements thereon;
Clause (1)
     (2) any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property existing at the date of the Indenture or, with respect to any series of Securities, the date of the supplemental indenture which sets forth the terms of any such series of Securities or the Board Resolution under which any such series of Securities is created;
     (3) any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary;
     (4) any Lien on Principal Property being constructed or improved securing loans to finance such construction or improvements;
     (5) any Lien on shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property Incurred in connection with the issuance of tax exempt government obligations;
     (6) any renewal of or substitution for any Lien permitted by any of the preceding through , provided, in the case of a Lien permitted under , or , the debt secured is not increased nor the Lien extended to any additional assets.
Clauses (1)
(5)
Clause (1)
(2)
(4)
          (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may create or assume Liens in addition to those permitted by through , and renew, extend or replace such Liens, provided that at the time of such creation, assumption, renewal, extension or replacement of such Lien, and after giving effect thereto, together with any sale and leaseback transactions permitted under hereof, Exempted Debt does not exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Clauses (1)
(6)
Section 10.06(b)
          (d) For the purposes of this and , the giving of a guarantee which is secured by a Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property, and the creation of a Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property
Section 10.05
Section 10.06
 
to secure Indebtedness that existed prior to the creation of such Lien, shall be deemed to involve the creation of Indebtedness in an amount equal to the principal amount guaranteed or secured by such Lien.
Section 10.06 .
LIMITATION ON SALE AND LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS
          (a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, except to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, any Principal Property as an entirety, or any substantial portion thereof, with the intention of taking back a lease of such property, except a lease for a period of two years or less at the end of which it is intended that the use of such property by the lessee will be discontinued; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may sell any such Principal Property and lease it back for a longer period:
     (1) if the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to hereof, to create a mortgage on the property to be leased securing Funded Debt in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such sale and leaseback transaction without equally and ratably securing the outstanding Securities; or
Section 10.05
     (2) if the Company promptly informs the Trustee of such transaction, the net proceeds of such transaction are at least equal to the Fair Market Value (as determined by Board Resolution) of such property, and the Company causes an amount equal to the net proceeds of the sale to be applied to the retirement, within 180 days after receipt of such proceeds, of Funded Debt Incurred or assumed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (including the Securities); provided further that, in lieu of applying all or any part of such net proceeds to such retirement, the Company may, within 75 days after such sale or transfer, deliver or cause to be delivered to the applicable trustee for cancellation either debentures or notes evidencing Funded Debt of the Company (which may include the Outstanding Securities) or of a Restricted Subsidiary previously authenticated and delivered by the applicable trustee, and not theretofore tendered for sinking fund purposes or called for a sinking fund or otherwise applied as a credit against an obligation to redeem or retire such notes or debentures. If the Company so delivers debentures or notes to the applicable trustee and an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee, the amount of cash that the Company will be required to apply to the retirement of Funded Debt will be reduced by an amount equal to the aggregate of the then applicable optional redemption prices (not including any optional sinking fund redemption prices) of such debentures or notes, or if there are no such redemption prices, the principal amount of such debentures or notes, provided, that in the case of debentures or notes which provide for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of the maturity thereof, such amount of cash shall be reduced by the amount of principal of such debentures or notes that would be due and payable as of the date of such application upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to the terms of the indenture pursuant to which such debentures or notes were issued; or
 
     (3) if the Company, within 180 days after the sale or transfer, applies or causes a Restricted Subsidiary to apply an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or transfer or the Fair Market Value of the Principal Property (or portion thereof) so sold and leased back at the time of entering into such sale and leaseback transaction (in either case as determined by Board Resolution of the Company) to purchase other Principal Property having a Fair Market Value at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the Principal Property (or portion thereof) sold or transferred in such sale and leaseback transaction.
          (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may enter into sale and leaseback transactions in addition to those permitted in and without any obligation to retire any outstanding notes or other Funded Debt, provided that at the time of entering into such sale and leaseback transactions and after giving effect thereto, together with any Liens permitted under hereof, Exempted Debt does not exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Subsection (a)
Section 10.05(c)
Section 10.07 .
PROVISIONS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
          Whether or not the Company is subject to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company will, to the extent permitted under the Exchange Act, file with the Commission the annual reports, quarterly reports and other documents which the Company would have been required to file with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) if the Company was so subject, such documents to be filed with the Commission on or prior to the date (the "") by which the Company would have been required so to file such documents if the Company was so subject. The Company will also in any event (x) within 15 days of each Required Filing Date (i) transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses appear in the security register, without cost to such Holders and (ii) file with the Trustee copies of the annual reports, quarterly reports and other documents which the Company would have been required to file with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act if the Company were subject to either of such Sections and (y) if filing such documents by the Company with the Commission is not permitted under the Exchange Act, promptly upon written request and payment of the reasonable cost of duplication and delivery, supply copies of such documents to any prospective Holder at the Company's cost.
Required Filing Date
Section 10.08 .
WAIVER OF CERTAIN COVENANTS
          Except as specified pursuant to for Securities of any series, the Company may omit with respect to any series of Securities in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in , and and any other covenants specified pursuant to if, before or after the time for such compliance, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, waive such compliance with respect to such series in such instance with such covenant or provision, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the
Section 3.01
Sections 10.05
10.06
10.07
Section 3.01
 
Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 11.01 .
RIGHTS OF REDEMPTION
          Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series, each series of Securities will be redeemable, as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the applicable series of Securities to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the applicable series of Securities discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus an amount of basis points specified in the supplemental indenture creating such series, plus accrued interest to but excluding the Redemption Date.
Section 3.01
Section 11.02 .
APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE
          Redemption of Securities at the election of the Company or otherwise, as permitted or required by any provision of this Indenture, shall be made in accordance with such provision and this except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series.
Article XI
Section 3.01
Section 11.03 .
ELECTION TO REDEEM; NOTICE TO TRUSTEE
          The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Company Order and an Officers' Certificate. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, not less than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of the applicable series of Securities to be redeemed except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series.
Section 3.01
Section 11.04 .
SELECTION BY TRUSTEE OF SECURITIES TO BE REDEEMED
          If less than all of the applicable series of Securities are to be redeemed, the particular Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 nor less than 30 days prior to the Redemption Date. The Trustee shall select the Securities or portions thereof for redemption from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. The amounts to be redeemed shall be equal to $2,000 or any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, unless provided otherwise in any supplemental indenture with respect to any particular series of Securities.
 
          The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Security Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
          For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
Section 11.05 .
NOTICE OF REDEMPTION
          Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date unless a shorter period is specified by the terms of such series established pursuant to , to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at its address appearing in the Security Register.
Section 3.01
          All notices of redemption shall state:
          (a) the Redemption Date;
          (b) the Redemption Price;
          (c) if less than all Outstanding Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the identification of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
          (d) in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the principal amount of such Security to be redeemed and that after the Redemption Date upon surrender of such Security, new Security or Securities in the aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued;
          (e) that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price;
          (f) that on the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security or portion thereof to be redeemed, and that (unless the Company shall default in payment of the Redemption Price) interest thereon shall cease to accrue on and after said date;
          (g) the names and addresses of the Paying Agent and the offices or agencies referred to in where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price;
Section 10.02
          (h) the CUSIP number, if any, relating to such Securities; and
          (i) the procedures that a Holder must follow to surrender the Securities to be redeemed.
 
          Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's written request delivered at least 15 days prior to the date such notice is to be given (unless a shorter period shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee), by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company. If the Company elects to give notice of redemption, it shall provide the Trustee with a certificate stating that such notice has been given in compliance with the requirements of this .
Section 11.05
          The notice if mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice. In any case, failure to give such notice by mail or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Security.
Section 11.06 .
DEPOSIT OF REDEMPTION PRICE
          On or prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company or any of its Affiliates is acting as Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in ) an amount of money in same day funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date or Special Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the applicable series of Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed on that date. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail or deliver to Holders of Securities so redeemed payment in an amount equal to the Redemption Price of the Securities purchased from each such Holder. Subject to , all money, if any, earned on funds held in trust by the Trustee or any Paying Agent shall be remitted to the Company.
Section 10.03
Section 6.01(f)
Section 11.07 .
SECURITIES PAYABLE ON REDEMPTION DATE
          Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities of any series so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities of such series (except as otherwise specified pursuant to ) shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such on the relevant Regular Record Dates and Special Record Dates according to the terms and the provisions of .
Section 3.01
Section 3.08
          If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and premium, if any, shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by such Security.
 
Section 11.08 .
SECURITIES REDEEMED OR PURCHASED IN PART
          Any Security which is to be redeemed or purchased only in part shall be surrendered to the Paying Agent at the office or agency maintained for such purpose pursuant to (with, if the Company, the Security Registrar or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Security Registrar or the Trustee, as the case may be, duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered that is not redeemed or purchased.
Section 10.02
Section 12.01 .
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE OF INDENTURE
          Unless otherwise specified pursuant to , this Indenture shall, upon Company Request, be discharged and shall cease to be of further effect (except as to surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities as expressly provided for herein) as to all Outstanding Securities of any series hereunder specified in such Company Request, and the Trustee, upon Company Request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when:
Section 3.01
          (a) either:
     (1) all the Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) lost, stolen or destroyed Securities of such series which have been replaced or paid as provided in or (ii) all Securities of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust as provided in ) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
Section 3.07
Section 10.03
     (2) all such Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (i) have become due and payable or, (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year; and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust an amount in United States dollars sufficient (in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee) to pay and discharge (without consideration of any reinvestment and after payment of all taxes or other charges and assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee) the entire Indebtedness on the Securities of such series not
 
theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including the principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on, the Securities of such series at such Maturity, Stated Maturity or Redemption Date;
          (b) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
          (c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Independent Counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, each stating that (i) all conditions precedent herein relating to the satisfaction and discharge hereof have been complied with, (ii) no Default with respect to the Securities of such series has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit and (iii) such deposit does not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a Default under, the Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party.
          Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge hereof, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under and, if United States dollars shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to of of this , the obligations of the Trustee under and the last paragraph of shall survive.
Section 6.07
Clause (2)
Subsection (a)
Section 12.01
Section 12.02
Section 10.03
Section 12.02 .
APPLICATION OF TRUST MONEY
          Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph , all United States dollars deposited with the Trustee pursuant to shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Securities for whose payment such United States dollars have been deposited with the Trustee
Section 10.03
Section 12.01
Section 13.01 .
GUARANTEE
          As and to the extent set forth in a supplemental indenture established as contemplated by with respect to any series of Securities, one or more persons (each, a "") may guarantee (each, a "") that series of Securities on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this . With respect to the applicable series of Securities, each Guarantee is joint and several with all other Guarantees of such series and is an unconditional guarantee for the benefit of each Holder of such a Security that has been authenticated and delivered by the Trustee, and for the benefit of the Trustee on behalf of each such Holder, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this , of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on such Security when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at its Stated Maturity or following acceleration, call for redemption, purchase or otherwise, in each case in accordance with the terms and
Section 3.01
Guarantor
Guarantee
Article XIII
Article XIII
 
conditions of such Security and this Indenture. In case of the failure of the Company punctually to make any such payment on any such Security, each Guarantor of such Security jointly and severally agrees to cause such payment to be made punctually when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the Stated Maturity or by acceleration, call for redemption, purchase or otherwise, and as if such payment were made by the Company. Each Guarantee shall be a guaranty of payment, not of collection. Except as expressly provided in this Indenture or any supplemental indenture to this Indenture to which a Guarantor is a party or any Security, the applicable Guarantor further agrees that the obligations guaranteed pursuant to the applicable Guarantee may be amended, supplemented, modified, restated, extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its Guarantee notwithstanding any such amendment, supplement, modification, extension or renewal of any such obligation.
Section 13.02 .
RELEASE OF GUARANTORS
          (a) Concurrently with the satisfaction and discharge of the Indenture under , the Guarantors shall be released from all of their obligations under this Indenture and any Guarantee, and from their obligations, if any, endorsed on any of the Securities.
Section 12.01
          (b) Concurrently with the defeasance of any series of Securities under of the Indenture or the covenant defeasance of the Securities under of the Indenture, the Guarantors shall be released from all of their obligations under this Indenture and any Guarantee, and from their obligations, if any, endorsed on any of the Securities.
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
          (c) Upon the consummation of any transaction (whether involving a sale or other disposition of securities, a merger or otherwise) whereby any Guarantor ceases to be a Subsidiary of the Company, such Guarantor shall automatically without further action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of the Securities, be released from all obligations under this Indenture and any Guarantee, and from its obligations, if any, endorsed on any of the Securities.
          (d) Concurrently with the termination of any Guarantor's obligations under its guarantees provided with respect to the Republic Credit Facility (including, but not limited to the Republic Credit Facility Guarantee), or upon the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under the Republic Credit Facility Guarantee, such Guarantor shall automatically, without further action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of Securities, be released from all of its obligations under this Indenture and any Guarantee, and from its obligations, if any, endorsed on any of the Securities.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY OR A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN OF THE INDENTURE.
SECTION 3.06
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT AND ANY SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
 
CUSIP NO.____________
$___________________
No.:________
          Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of ____________________ ($__________) United States dollars on _______________, at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon from _______________, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on _____________ and in each year, commencing __________ at the rate of _____% per annum, in United States dollars, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
          The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the ___________ or _______________ (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid, or duly provided for, and interest on such defaulted interest at the interest rate borne by the Securities, to the extent lawful, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or any Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice thereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in this Indenture.
          Payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, this Security, and exchange or transfer of this Security, will be made at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York maintained for such purpose (which initially will be a corporate trust office of the Trustee's Affiliate located at 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, NY 10005), or at such other office or agency as may be maintained for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that payment of interest
 
may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register.
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof or by the authenticating agent appointed as provided in the Indenture by manual signature of an authorized signer, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed by the manual or facsimile signature of its authorized officers.
 
          This is one of the _____% Notes due _______________ referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture (as such Indenture may be supplemented or amended).
Dated:_________________, _____
 
          This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its _____% Notes due _____ (herein called the ""), limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $__________, issued under and subject to the terms of an indenture (herein called the "") dated as of September 8, 2009, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
          The Securities may be redeemed at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, upon not less than 30 and not more than 60 days' notice to the Holders thereof as provided in the Indenture, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate, plus _____ basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest to but excluding the Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record of such Securities on relevant record dates to receive interest due on an interest payment date), if any.
          If less than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, not more than 60 nor less than 30 days before the Redemption Date, the Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on a pro rata basis, by lot or by any other method the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
          In the case of any redemption of Securities in accordance with the Indenture, interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities of record as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date or Special Record Date referred to on the face hereof. Securities (or portions thereof) for whose redemption and payment provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the Redemption Date.
          In the event of redemption or repurchase of this Security in accordance with the Indenture in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
 
 
          If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire Indebtedness on the Securities and (b) certain covenants and Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions (including certain amendments permitted without the consent of any Holders and certain amendments which required the consent of all of the Holders) as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders under the Indenture and the Securities at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series (100% of the Holders of such series in certain circumstances) at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such affected series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and the Securities of such series and certain past Defaults and Events of Default under the Indenture and the Securities of such series and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company or any other obligor on the Securities (in the event such other obligor is obligated to make payments in respect of the Securities), which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
          The Securities in certificated form are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a differing authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
          Except as indicated in the Indenture, no service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company or any Guarantor shall not have any liability for any obligations under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
          Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
          All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.2
 
          FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of November 25, 2009 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), between REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the "Company"), the guarantors listed on the signature pages hereto (collectively, the "Guarantors" and each, a "Guarantor"), and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as trustee under the Base Indenture referred to below (hereinafter called the "Trustee").
          WHEREAS, the Company entered into an Indenture dated as of November 25, 2009 (the "Base Indenture," all capitalized terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture and not otherwise defined being used as defined in the Base Indenture) (the Base Indenture and First Supplemental Indenture are hereinafter collectively called the "Indenture") with the Trustee, providing for (i) the issuance of senior notes, unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such time or times, to be issued in one or more series and to have such other provisions as authorized by or pursuant to the authority granted in one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company and (ii) the guarantee of such senior notes by guarantors to be named in a supplemental indenture (collectively, the "Guarantees" and each, a "Guarantee"); and
          WHEREAS, the Company proposes to issue $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.25% Notes due 2021 guaranteed by the Guarantors (such senior notes being referred to herein as the "Initial Notes") and to provide therefore and for, if and when issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement, 5.25% Notes due 2021 guaranteed by the Guarantors and registered under the Securities Act (such senior notes being referred to herein as the "Exchange Notes" and, together with the Initial Notes, the "Notes," and all references to Securities in the Base Indenture shall be deemed to refer also to the Notes unless the context otherwise provides); and
          WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture provides that without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of any series issued under the Base Indenture, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture to, among other things, establish the form or terms of securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01 thereof and provide for Guarantees of such series as provided by Section 13.01 thereof; and
          WHEREAS, the entry into this First Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Base Indenture; and
          WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make this First Supplemental Indenture, when executed and delivered by the Company and the Guarantors, the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company and the Guarantors, in accordance with its terms; and
          WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make the Notes, when executed and delivered by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided for in the Indenture, the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms; and
 
          WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make the Guarantees, when (a) the Notes are executed and delivered by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee and (b) this First Supplemental Indenture is executed and delivered by the Guarantors, the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Guarantors, in accordance with their terms; and
          NOW, THEREFORE, THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
          The parties hereto mutually covenant and agree as follows:
          SECTION 1. The Base Indenture is hereby amended solely with respect to the Notes, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, as follows:
     "Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp. or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors, or if all of such firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
     "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) each of Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc. and BNP Paribas Securities Corp., and a Primary Treasury Dealer (as defined below) selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, and their respective successors, provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute for such bank another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Independent Investment Banker after consultation with the Company.
     "144A Global Security" means a Global Security substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Security Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
     "Additional Notes" have the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
     "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following after the date of issuance of the Notes:
 
1. the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
2. the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, it being agreed that an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for whom shares are held under an employee stock ownership, employee retirement, employee savings or similar plan and whose shares are voted in accordance with the instructions of such employee shall not be a member of a "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) solely because such employee's shares are held by a trustee under said plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of the Company's Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of its outstanding Voting Stock;
3. the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitutes, or is converted into or exchanged for, Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
4. during any period of 24 consecutive calendar months, the majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors shall no longer be composed of individuals (a) who were members of the Company's Board of Directors on the first day of such period or (b) whose election or nomination to the Company's Board of Directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (a) above constituting, at the time of such election or nomination, at least a majority of the Company's Board of Directors or, if directors are nominated by a committee of the Company's Board of Directors, constituting at the time of such nomination, at least a majority of such committee; or
5. the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
 
     "Change of Control Triggering Event" means, with respect to the Notes, the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "Trigger Period") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). If a Rating Agency is not providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of any Trigger Period, the Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by such Rating Agency during that Trigger Period.
     "Change of Control Payment" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01.
     "Change of Control Payment Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01.
     "Change of Control Offer" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01.
     "Change of Control Repurchase Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 14.01.
     "Certificated Security" means a Security registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 3.06 hereof, substantially in the form of the Security attached hereto as Exhibit A and that does not include the information called for by footnotes 1, 3 and 4 thereof.
     "Clearstream" means Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, Luxembourg (or any successor securities clearing agency).
     "Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank, SA/NV as operator of the Euroclear Clearance System (or any successor securities clearing agency).
     "Exchange Notes" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
     "Exchange Offer" means the offer that may be made by the Company pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement to exchange Exchange Notes for Initial Notes.
     "Exchange Offer Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
     "Global Security Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 3.06(h)(ii), which is required to be placed on all Global Securities issued under this Indenture.
 
     "Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Security through a Participant.
     "Initial Notes" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
     "Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company under the circumstances permitting the Company to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agency."
     "Letter of Transmittal" means any letter of transmittal, or its electronic equivalent in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, to be prepared by the Company and sent to all Holders of the Initial Notes for use by such Holders in connection with an Exchange Offer.
     "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
     "Non-U.S. Person" has the meaning assigned to such term in Regulation S.
     "Note" or "Notes" means the Initial Notes, the Exchange Notes and the Additional Notes, if any.
     "Participant" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
     "Private Placement Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 3.06(h)(i) to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture. Notes issued in the Exchange Offer or sold off of the Shelf Registration Statement will not be required to bear a Private Placement Legend except to the extent required by the terms of the Indenture.
     "QIB" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
     "Rating Agency" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside the Company's control, the Company may
 
appoint another "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act as a replacement for such Rating Agency; provided, that the Company shall give notice of such appointment to the Trustee.
     "Registration Rights Agreement" means (i) the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 25, 2009, by and among the Company, the Guarantors and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and (ii) with respect to any Additional Notes issued subsequent to November 25, 2009, the Registration Rights Agreement, if any, entered into for the benefit of the holders of such Additional Notes, if any.
     "Regulation S" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
     "Regulation S Global Security" means a Global Security bearing the Global Securities Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
     "Restricted Certificated Security" means a Certificated Security bearing the Private Placement Legend.
     "Restricted Global Security" means a Global Security bearing the Private Placement Legend.
     "Rule 144" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
     "Rule 144A" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
     "Rule 903" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act.
     "Rule 904" means Rule 904 promulgated under the Securities Act.
     "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
     "Shelf Registration Statement" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
     "Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
 
     "Section 3.06
Book Entry Provisions; Transfer and Exchange
          (a) Each Global Security initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be deposited with, or on behalf of, the Depositary or with the Trustee as custodian for such Depositary and (iii) bear the Global Security Legend.
          Participants shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Participants, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Security.
          (b) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (i) such Depositary (A) has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered as such under the Exchange Act, and in either case of (A) or (B) the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary, (ii) the Company, at its option, executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order stating that it elects to cause the issuance of the Securities in certificated form and that all Global Securities shall be exchanged in whole for Securities that are not Global Securities (in which case, such exchange shall be effected by the Trustee) or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes. In all cases, Certificated Securities delivered in exchange for any Global Security or beneficial interests in Global Securities will be registered in the names, and issued in any approved denominations, requested by or on behalf of the Depositary (in accordance with its customary procedures). Global Securities also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 3.04 and 3.07 hereof. Every Security authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 3.06 or Section 3.04 or 3.07 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security. A Global Security may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 3.06(b); however, beneficial interests in a Global Security may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 3.06(c), (d) or (g) hereof.
          (c) .
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
          The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Securities shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. To the extent that there is any conflict between the Applicable Procedures and the terms of this Indenture, the Applicable Procedures will control. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities shall be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable
 
to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Securities also shall require compliance with either subparagraph (i) or (ii) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
     (i) . Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Security in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend. Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Security may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Security Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 3.06(c)(i).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Security
     (ii) . In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 3.06(c)(i) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Security Registrar either (A) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or (B) (1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Certificated Security in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Certificated Security shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Company in accordance with Section 3.06(g) hereof, the requirements of this Section 3.06(c)(ii) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Securities contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Security pursuant to Section 3.06(i) hereof.
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Securities
     (iii) A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Security if the transfer complies with the
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Security.
 
requirements of Section 3.06(c)(ii) above and the Security Registrar receives the following:
     (A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof; and
     (B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof.
     (iv) . A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Security may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 3.06(c)(ii) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Beneficial Interests in the Unrestricted Global Security
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
     (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     (v) Through and including the 40th day after the Issue Date, beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Security may be held only through Euroclear or Clearstream, unless transferred to a person that takes delivery through a Rule 144A Global Security.
     (vi) If any such transfer is effected pursuant to Section 3.06(c)(iv) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to Section 3.06(c)(iv).
Beneficial interests in an Unrestricted Global Security cannot be exchanged for, or transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of, a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
          (d) .
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Certificated Securities
     (i) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Certificated Security or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Certificated Security, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Restricted Certificated Securities
     (A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Certificated Security, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
     (B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the
 
effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
     (C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
     (D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
     (E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
     (F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof,
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.06(i) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Certificated Security in the appropriate principal amount.
Any Certificated Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 3.06(d) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Certificated Securities to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Certificated Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security pursuant to this Section 3.06(d)(i) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
     (ii) . A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Certificated Security or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Certificated Security only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Certificated Securities
 
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
     (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
     (iii) . If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Certificated Security or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Certificated Security, then, upon satisfaction of
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities to Unrestricted Certificated Securities
 
the conditions set forth in Section 3.06(c)(ii) hereof, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Security to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 3.06(i) hereof, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Certificated Security in the appropriate principal amount. Any Certificated Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.06(d)(iii) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Certificated Securities to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Certificated Security issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 3.06(d)(iii) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
          (e) .
Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities for Beneficial Interests
     (i) . If any Holder of a Restricted Certificated Security proposes to exchange such Restricted Certificated Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security or to transfer such Restricted Certificated Securities to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, then, upon receipt by the Security Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Certificated Securities to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
     (A) if the Holder of such Restricted Certificated Security proposes to exchange such Restricted Certificated Security for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
     (B) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
     (C) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
     (D) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
     (E) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; and
     (F) if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof;
the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Certificated Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Security, in the case of clauses (B), (D) and (F) above, the 144A Global Security, and in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Security.
     (ii) . A Holder of a Restricted Certificated Security may exchange such Restricted Certificated Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Restricted Certificated Security to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security only if:
Restricted Certificated Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
     (B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Security Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an opinion of counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Security Registrar to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 3.06(d)(ii), the Trustee shall cancel the Restricted Certificated Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security.
     (iii) . A Holder of an Unrestricted Certificated Security may exchange such Unrestricted Certificated Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or transfer such Unrestricted Certificated Security to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee shall cancel the applicable Unrestricted Certificated Security and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Securities.
Unrestricted Certificated Securities to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Securities
If any such exchange or transfer from a Certificated Security to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (ii)(B), (ii)(D) or (iii) of this Section 3.06(e) at a time when an Unrestricted Global Security has not yet been issued, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Certificated Securities so transferred.
          (f) . Upon request by a Holder of Certificated Securities and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 3.06(f), the Security Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Certificated Securities. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Security Registrar the Certificated Securities
Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities for Certificated Securities
 
duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Security Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 3.06(f).
     (i) . Any Restricted Certificated Security may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Certificated Security if the Security Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Certificated Securities to Restricted Certificated Securities
     (A) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
     (B) if the transfer will be made pursuant to Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
     (C) if the transfer will be made pursuant to any other exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and opinion of counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
     (ii) . Any Restricted Certificated Security may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Certificated Security or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Certificated Security if:
Restricted Certificated Securities to Unrestricted Certificated Securities
     (A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not (1) a broker-dealer, (2) a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or (3) a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company;
     (B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
     (C) any such transfer is effected by a broker-dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
     (D) the Security Registrar receives the following:
 
          (g) . Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall issue and, upon receipt of a Company Order in accordance with Section 3.03, the Trustee shall authenticate (i) one or more Unrestricted Global Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Securities tendered for acceptance by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that (x) they are not broker-dealers, (y) they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and (z) they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Company, and accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer and (ii) Certificated Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Certificated Securities accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer. Concurrently with the issuance of such Securities, the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal
Exchange Offer
 
amount of the applicable Restricted Global Securities to be reduced accordingly, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Certificated Securities so accepted Certificated Securities in the appropriate principal amount.
          (h) . The following legends shall appear on the face of all Global Securities and Certificated Securities issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends
     (i) .
Private Placement Legend
     (A) Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Security and each Certificated Security (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
"THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE
 
SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE."
     (B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Security or Certificated Security issued pursuant to subparagraphs (c)(i)(second sentence), (c)(iv), (d)(ii), (d)(iii), (e)(ii), (e)(iii), (f)(ii), or (g) to this Section 3.06 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall not bear the Private Placement Legend, and any Security sold off of a Shelf Registration Statement shall not bear the Private Placement Legend.
     (ii) Global Security Legend. Each Global Security shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
"THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY OR A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.06 OF THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT AND ANY SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
          (i) If any Global Security is to be exchanged for Certificated Securities or canceled in whole, it shall be surrendered by or on behalf of the Depositary or its nominee to the Trustee, as Security Registrar, for exchange or cancellation as provided in this Article III. If any Global Security is to be exchanged for Certificated Securities or canceled in part, or if a
 
Certificated Security is to be exchanged in whole or in part for a beneficial interest in any Global Security, then either (i) such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or cancellation as provided in this Article III or (ii) the principal amount thereof shall be reduced or increased by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged or canceled, or equal to the principal amount of such Certificated Security to be so exchanged for a beneficial interest therein, as the case may be, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee, as Security Registrar, whereupon the Trustee, in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, shall instruct the Depositary or its authorized representative to make a corresponding adjustment to its records. Upon any such surrender or adjustment of a Global Security, the Trustee shall, subject to this Section 3.06(i) and as otherwise provided in this Article III, authenticate and deliver any Securities issuable in exchange for such Global Security (or any portion thereof) to or upon the order of, and registered in such names as may be directed by, the Depositary or its authorized representative. Upon the request of the Trustee in connection with the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 3.06(b), the Company shall promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Certificated Securities. The Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon any order, direction or request of the Depositary or its authorized representative which is given or made pursuant to this Article III if such order, direction or request is given or made in accordance with the Applicable Procedures
          (j) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to this Article III or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless such Security is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof.
          (k) The Depositary or its nominee, as registered owner of a Global Security, shall be the Holder of such Global Security for all purposes under this Indenture and the Securities, and owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security shall hold such interests pursuant to the Applicable Procedures. Accordingly, any such owner's beneficial interest in a Global Security will be shown only on, and the transfer of such interest shall be effected only through, records maintained by the Depositary or its nominee or its Participants.
          (l) The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Participants or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
          (m) None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or any Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of Depositary records relating to, or payments made on account of, beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any Depositary records relating to such beneficial
 
ownership interests, or for transfers of beneficial interests in the Securities or any transactions between the Depositary and beneficial owners.
          "Upon the Company's exercise of the option applicable to this Section 4.03 with respect to the Notes, the Company shall be released from its obligations under any covenant or provision contained or referred to in Sections 10.05, 10.06, 10.07 and 14.01, with respect to the Defeased Securities, on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 4.04 below are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"), and the Defeased Securities shall thereafter be deemed to be not "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder, and the Events of Default under Section 5.01(c), (d) and (e) shall cease to be in full force and effect with respect to the Notes."
 
"(l) amend, change or modify the Company's obligation to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event in accordance with Section 14.01 after such Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred, including amending, changing or modifying any definition related thereto."
In the case of each of clauses (1) and (2), accrued interest will be payable to the redemption date."
Section 14.01. REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDERS UPON A CHANGE OF CONTROL
     (a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Article XI of the Indenture, each Holder shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a
 
portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"), subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
     (b) Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred with respect to the Notes, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company will be required to send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
     Such notice shall state:
 
     (c) Repurchases of Notes under this Section 14.01 shall be made, at the option of the Holder thereof, upon
     The Change of Control Repurchase Notice shall state:
 
, that if the Notes are not in certificated form, the Change of Control Repurchase Notice must comply with appropriate procedures of the Depositary.
provided, however
     (c) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
     (d) The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Notes if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all the Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
Section 14.02. COMPLIANCE WITH TENDER OFFER RULES
          The Company shall comply in all material respects with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict."
 
(L) The Guarantors named in this First Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be Guarantors (as defined in Section 13.01 of the Base Indenture) for all purposes under the Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture and subject to all provisions of the Base Indenture, including but not limited to Article XIII.
          SECTION 2. The Base Indenture is incorporated by reference in full into this First Supplemental Indenture, and all parties to this First Supplemental Indenture agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture.The Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. All provisions included in this First Supplemental Indenture supersede any similar provisions included in the Base Indenture unless not permitted by law.
          SECTION 3. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this First Supplemental Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
          SECTION 4. All covenants and agreements in this First Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the Guarantors shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
          SECTION 5. In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions (or of the other series of Notes) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
          SECTION 6. Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, expressed or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, and the Holders of the Notes any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture.
          SECTION 7. This First Supplemental Indenture and each Note shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York and this First Supplemental Indenture and each such Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
          SECTION 8. All terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the Base Indenture shall have the meanings set forth therein.
          SECTION 9. This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page hereto by facsimile or electronic transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this First Supplemental Indenture.
 
          SECTION 10. The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture, the Notes or the Guarantees. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Notes or the proceeds thereof.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
[THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY OR A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.06 OF THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT AND ANY SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
1
[THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION. NEITHER THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, SUCH REGISTRATION. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES ON ITS OWN BEHALF AND ON BEHALF OF ANY INVESTOR ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT HAS PURCHASED SECURITIES, TO OFFER, SELL OR
 
 
OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") THAT IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE ISSUER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ISSUER WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY), ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT THAT HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) PURSUANT TO OFFERS AND SALES THAT OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO NON-U.S. PERSONS WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE ISSUER'S AND THE TRUSTEE'S RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.]
2
 
 
          Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or its registered assigns, the principal sum of ($) United States dollars [, or such greater or lesser amount as may from time to time be endorsed on the Schedule of Increases and Decreases of Interests in the Global Note attached hereto (but in no event may such amount exceed the aggregate principal amount of Notes authenticated pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Indenture referred to below and then Outstanding pursuant the terms of the Indenture]), on November 15, 2021, at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon from November 25, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year, commencing May 15, 2010 at the rate of 5.25% per annum, in United States dollars, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The principal amount of the Securities which may be issued is unlimited. The Company may issue additional senior notes of the same class and series as this Security in one or more tranches from time to time without notice to or the consent of the existing holders of the Securities. These additional senior notes are referred to in this Security as the "Additional Securities" and all references to the Securities in this Security or in the Indenture shall include the Additional Securities. The Additional Securities shall vote as a class with all other Securities as to matters as to which such Securities have a vote.
                    
                    
3
          The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 1 or November 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid, or duly provided for, and interest on such defaulted interest at the interest rate borne by the Securities, to the extent lawful, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or any Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice thereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less
 
 
than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in this Indenture.
          Payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, this Security, and exchange or transfer of this Security, will be made at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York maintained for such purpose (which initially will be a corporate trust office of the Trustee or its affiliate located at 100 Wall Street, Suite 1600, New York, NY 10005), or at such other office or agency as may be maintained for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register.
provided
however
          Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof or by the authenticating agent appointed as provided in the Indenture by manual signature of an authorized signer, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed by the manual or facsimile signature of its authorized officers.
 
          This is one of the 5.25% Notes due November 15, 2021 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated:
                    
 
          This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 5.25% Notes due 2021 (herein called the "Securities"), limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $600,000,000, issued under and subject to the terms of an indenture (herein called the "Indenture") dated as of November 25, 2009, between the Company, the guarantors listed on the signature pages thereto (the "Guarantors") and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2009, to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
          The Securities may be redeemed at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, upon not less than 30 and not more than 60 days' notice to the Holders thereof as provided in the Indenture, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate, plus 30 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record of such Securities on relevant record dates to receive interest due on an interest payment date), if any.
          If less than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, not more than 60 nor less than 30 days before the Redemption Date, the Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on a pro rata basis, by lot or by any other method the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
          In the case of any redemption of Securities in accordance with the Indenture, interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities of record as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date or Special Record Date referred to on the face hereof. Securities (or portions thereof) for whose redemption and payment provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the Redemption Date.
          In the event of redemption or repurchase of this Security in accordance with the Indenture in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
 
          Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities pursuant to Article XI of the Indenture, each Holder of the Securities shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Security pursuant to Article XIV of the Indenture.
          If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire Indebtedness on the Securities and (b) certain covenants and Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions (including certain amendments permitted without the consent of any Holders and certain amendments which required the consent of all of the Holders) as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders under the Indenture and the Securities at any time by the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding that are affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities (100% of the Holders in certain circumstances) at the time Outstanding that are affected, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and the Securities of such series and certain past Defaults and Events of Default under the Indenture and the Securities and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company or any other obligor on the Securities (in the event such other obligor is obligated to make payments in respect of the Securities), which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
          The Securities in certificated form are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a differing authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
          Except as indicated in the Indenture, no service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company or any Guarantor shall not have any liability for any obligations under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
          Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 14.01 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
Date:
                    
                    
Your Signature: (Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Security)
                    
                    
                    
Tax Identification No:
                    
                    
Signature Guarantee*:
                    
                    
 
 
     The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
 
 
EXHIBIT B
     Re: Republic Industries, Inc.
 
5.25% Notes due 2021
     Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2009 and First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2009 (collectively, the "Indenture"), among Republic Industries, Inc., as issuer (the "Company"), the guarantors named therein and U.S Bank National Association, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
     , (the "Transferor") owns and proposes to transfer the Securities or interest in such Securities specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $ in such Securities or interests (the "Transfer"), to (the "Transferee"), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                    
                    
                                        
     1.  Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Security or a Certificated Security Pursuant to Rule 144A. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Certificated Security is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Certificated Security for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Security and/or the Certificated Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
o
     2.  Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Security or a Certificated Security pursuant to Regulation S. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under
o
 
the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the Transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act and (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Security and/or the Certificated Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
     3.  Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in a Certificated Security pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation SThe Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities and Restricted Certificated Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
o
.
     (a) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
o
     (b) such Transfer is being effected to the Company or a subsidiary thereof;
o
     (c) such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act.
o
     4.  Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security or of an Unrestricted Certificated Security.
o
     (a) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities
o
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144.
 
Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Certificated Securities and in the Indenture.
     (b) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities, on Restricted Certificated Securities and in the Indenture.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S.
     (c) (i) The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and (ii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Certificated Security will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Securities or Restricted Certificated Securities and in the Indenture.
o
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption.
     This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
 
     Dated:
                    
 
 
EXHIBIT C
Republic Services, Inc. 18500 North Allied Way Phoenix, Arizona 85054
     Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2009 and First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2009 (collectively, the "Indenture"), among Republic Services, Inc., as issuer (the "Company"), the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
     , (the "Owner") owns and proposes to exchange the Securities[s] or interest in such Securities[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $ in such Securities[s] or interests (the "Exchange"). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
                    
                    
                    
     1. Exchange of Restricted Certificated Securities or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Security for Unrestricted Certificated Securities or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Security
     (a)  In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
 
     (b)  In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for an Unrestricted Certificated Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Certificated Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Certificated Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Unrestricted Certificated Security.
     (c)  In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Certificated Security for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Certificated Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Certificated Security to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security.
     (d)  In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Certificated Security for an Unrestricted Certificated Security, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the Unrestricted Certificated Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Certificated Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, (iii) the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and (iv) the Unrestricted Certificated Security is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
o
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Certificated Security to Unrestricted Certificated Security.
     2. Exchange of Restricted Certificated Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities for Restricted Certificated Securities or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Securities
     (a)  In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Restricted
o
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security to Restricted Certificated Security.
 
Certificated Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Certificated Security is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Certificated Security issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Certificated Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
     (b) In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Certificated Security for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE] 144A Global Security, Regulation S Global Security with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies (i) the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and (ii) such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Securities and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Security and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Certificated Security to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security.
o
o
     This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Company.
Dated:
                    

Exhibit 4.3
 
     This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and entered into as of November 25, 2009, by and among Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), the guarantors listed on Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Guarantors"), and Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Calyon Securities (USA) Inc., Commerzbank Capital Markets Corp., Mizuho Securities USA Inc., SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. and UniCredit Capital Markets, Inc. (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"), each of whom has agreed to purchase the Company's 5.25% Notes due 2021 (the "Notes") fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Guarantors (the "Guarantees") pursuant to the Purchase Agreement (as defined below). The Notes and the Guarantees are herein collectively referred to as the "Securities."
     This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated November 18, 2009 (the "Purchase Agreement"), among the Company, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers (i) for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and (ii) for the benefit of the holders from time to time of Transfer Restricted Securities (as defined below), including the Initial Purchasers. In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to purchase the Securities, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers set forth in Section 5(g) of the Purchase Agreement.
     The parties hereby agree as follows:
     SECTION 1. . As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Additional Interest:
     As defined in Section 6(c) hereof.
Advice:
     Agreement: As defined in the preamble hereto.
     Any broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer:
     Any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or U.S. federal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies located in The City of New York, New York are authorized or obligated to be closed.
Business Day:
     The date of this Agreement.
Closing Date:
     The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission:
     A registered Exchange Offer shall be deemed "Consummated" for purposes of this Agreement upon the occurrence of (i) the filing and effectiveness under the Securities Act of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Securities
Consummate:
 
to be issued in the Exchange Offer, (ii) the maintenance of such Registration Statement continuously effective and the keeping of the Exchange Offer open for a period not less than the minimum period required pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof, and (iii) the delivery by the Company to the registrar under the Indenture of Exchange Securities in the same aggregate principal amount as the aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities that were tendered by Holders thereof pursuant to the Exchange Offer.
     The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act:
     As defined in Section 3(a) hereto.
Exchange Date:
     The registration by the Company and the Guarantors under the Securities Act of the Exchange Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement pursuant to which the Company and the Guarantors offer the Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities the opportunity to exchange all such outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holders for Exchange Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders.
Exchange Offer:
     The Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer, including the related Prospectus.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement:
     The 5.25% Notes due 2021 (and related Guarantees), of the same series under the Indenture as the Securities, to be issued to Holders in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to this Agreement.
Exchange Securities:
     Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA:
     As defined in Section 2(b) hereof.
Holders:
     As defined in Section 8(a) hereof.
Indemnified Holder:
     The Indenture dated as of November 25, 2009 among the Company, the guarantors named therein and U.S Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 25, 2009, pursuant to which the Securities are to be issued, as such Indenture is amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture:
     The issuance and sale by the Company of the Securities to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
Initial Placement:
     As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchasers:
     An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof or other similar entity.
Person:
 
     The prospectus included in a Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus:
     As defined in Section 5 hereof.
Registration Default:
     Any registration statement of the Company and the Guarantors relating to (a) an offering of Exchange Securities pursuant to an Exchange Offer or (b) the registration for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, which is filed pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, in each case, including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement:
     As defined in the preamble hereto.
Securities:
     The Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act:
     As defined in Section 4(a) hereof.
Shelf Filing Deadline:
     As defined in Section 4(a) hereof.
Shelf Registration Statement:
     Each Security, until the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which such Security is exchanged in the Exchange Offer for an Exchange Security entitled to be resold to the public by the holder thereof without complying with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act, (ii) the date on which such Security has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and in accordance with a Shelf Registration Statement and such Securities have been exchanged or disposed of pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, (iii) the date on which such Security ceases to be outstanding, (iv) the date on which such Security is distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or (v) following the exchange by a Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer of a Transfer Restricted Security for an Exchange Security, the date on which such Exchange Security is disposed of by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the "Plan of Distribution" contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (including the delivery of the Prospectus contained therein).
Transfer Restricted Securities:
     The Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Trust Indenture Act:
     or A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Registration
Underwritten Offering:
          SECTION 2.
Securities Subject to this Agreement
.
     (a) . The securities entitled to the benefits of this Agreement are the Transfer Restricted Securities
Transfer Restricted Securities
.
 
     (b) . A Person is deemed to be a holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (each, a "Holder") whenever such Person owns Transfer Restricted Securities.
Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities
          SECTION 3. .
Registered Exchange Offer
     (a) Unless the Exchange Offer shall not be permissible under applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) hereof have been complied with), or there are no Transfer Restricted Securities outstanding, each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use its reasonable best efforts to (i) cause to be filed with the Commission, a Registration Statement under the Securities Act relating to the Exchange Securities and the Exchange Offer, (ii) cause such Registration Statement to become effective, (iii) in connection with the foregoing, file (A) all pre-effective amendments to such Registration Statement as may be necessary in order to cause such Registration Statement to become effective, (B) if applicable, a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act and (C) cause all necessary filings in connection with the registration and qualification of the Exchange Securities to be made under the state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as are necessary to permit Consummation of the Exchange Offer, and (iv) upon the effectiveness of such Registration Statement, commence the Exchange Offer. Each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use its reasonable best efforts to Consummate the Exchange Offer not later than 365 days following the Closing Date (or if such 365th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) (the "Exchange Date"). The Exchange Offer shall be on the appropriate form permitting registration of the Exchange Securities to be offered in exchange for the Transfer Restricted Securities and to permit resales of Transfer Restricted Securities held by Broker-Dealers as contemplated by Section 3(c) hereof.
     (b) If an Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective pursuant to Section 3(a) above, the Company and the Guarantors shall cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be effective continuously and shall keep the Exchange Offer open for a period of not less than the minimum period required under applicable federal and state securities laws to Consummate the Exchange Offer; provided, however, that in no event shall such period be less than 20 Business Days after the date notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders. The Company shall cause the Exchange Offer to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws. No securities other than the Exchange Securities shall be included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer to be Consummated by the Exchange Date.
     (c) The Company shall indicate in a "Plan of Distribution" section contained in the Prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement that any Broker-Dealer who holds Transfer Restricted Securities that were acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (other than Transfer Restricted Securities acquired directly from the Company), may exchange such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, such Broker-Dealer may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must, therefore, deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the Securities Act in connection with any resales of the Exchange Securities received by such Broker-Dealer in the Exchange Offer, which prospectus delivery requirement may be satisfied by the delivery by such Broker-Dealer of the Prospectus contained
 
in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement. Such "Plan of Distribution" section shall also contain all other information with respect to such resales by any Broker-Dealers that the Commission may require in order to permit such resales pursuant thereto, but such "Plan of Distribution" shall not name any such Broker-Dealer or disclose the amount of Transfer Restricted Securities held by any such Broker-Dealer except to the extent required by the Commission as a result of a change in policy after the date of this Agreement.
     In the event the Company receives notice from one or more Broker-Dealers in connection with the Exchange Offer or within 20 days after the consummation of the Exchange Offer that such Broker-Dealer is exchanging or has exchanged Transfer Restricted Securities acquired for the account of such Broker-Dealer as a result of market making or other trading activities, then each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Transfer Restricted Securities acquired by any Broker-Dealers for their own accounts as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, for a period ending on the earlier of (i) 180 days from the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective and (ii) the date on which a Broker-Dealer is no longer required to deliver a prospectus in connection with market-making or other trading activities.
     The Company shall provide sufficient copies of the latest version of such Prospectus to all Broker-Dealers promptly upon request at any time during such 180-day (or shorter as provided in the foregoing sentence) period in order to facilitate such resales.
          SECTION 4. .
Shelf Registration
     (a) . If (i) the Company and the Guarantors are not required to file the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or to consummate the Exchange Offer solely because the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or Commission policy (after the procedures set forth in Section 6(a) hereof have been complied with), (ii) for any reason the Exchange Offer is not Consummated by the Exchange Date, or (iii) prior to the Exchange Date: (A) the Initial Purchasers request from the Company with respect to Transfer Restricted Securities not eligible to be exchanged for Exchange Securities in the Exchange Offer, (B) with respect to any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities such Holder notifies the Company that (i) such Holder is prohibited by applicable law or Commission policy from participating in the Exchange Offer, (ii) such Holder may not resell the Exchange Securities acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and that the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales by such Holder, or (iii) such Holder is a Broker-Dealer and holds Transfer Restricted Securities acquired directly from the Company or one of its affiliates or (C) in the case of any Initial Purchaser, such Initial Purchaser notifies the Company it will not receive freely tradable Exchange Securities in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities constituting any portion of such Initial Purchaser's unsold allotment, then the Company and the Guarantors shall:
Shelf Registration
 
     (x) use their reasonable best efforts to cause to be filed a shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act, which may be an amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (in either event, the "Shelf Registration Statement") on or prior to the 60th day after the date such obligation arises but no earlier than the 300th day after the Closing Date (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) (such date being the "Shelf Filing Deadline"), which Shelf Registration Statement shall provide for resales of all Transfer Restricted Securities the Holders of which shall have provided the information required pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof; and
     (y) use their reasonable best efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the 120 day after the date such obligation arises but no earlier than the 365 day after the Closing Date (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) (such date being the "Shelf Effectiveness Deadline").
th
th
     Each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Sections 6(b) and (c) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it is available for resales of Transfer Restricted Securities by the Holders of such Securities entitled to the benefit of this Section 4(a), and to ensure that it conforms with the requirements of this Agreement, the Securities Act and the policies, rules and regulations of the Commission as announced from time to time, from the date on which the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission until the expiration of the one year period referred to in Rule 144 applicable to securities held by non-affiliates under the Securities Act (or shorter period that will terminate when all the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement).
     (b) . No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may include any of its Transfer Restricted Securities in any Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing, within 20 Business Days after receipt of a request therefor, such information as the Company may reasonably request for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or preliminary Prospectus included therein. Each Holder as to which any Shelf Registration Statement is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Holder not materially misleading.
Provision by Holders of Certain Information in Connection with the Shelf Registration Statement
          SECTION 5. . If either (i) the Exchange Offer has not been Consummated by the Exchange Date, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement, if required hereby, has not been filed by the Shelf Filing Deadline or declared effective by the Commission by the Shelf Effectiveness Deadline or (iii) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement has been declared effective but ceases to be effective at any time at which it is required to be effective under this Agreement (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iii), a "Registration Default"), the Company hereby agrees that the interest rate borne by the Transfer Restricted Securities shall be increased by 0.25% per annum during the 90-day period
Additional Interest
 
immediately following the occurrence of any Registration Default and shall increase by 0.25% per annum at the end of each subsequent 90-day period (such increase, "Additional Interest"), but in no event shall the aggregate amount of such increases exceed 1.00% per annum. Following the earlier of (i) the cure of all Registration Defaults relating to the particular Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) the date on which such Transfer Restricted Securities cease to be Transfer Restricted Securities, the interest rate borne by the relevant Transfer Restricted Securities will be reduced to the original interest rate borne by such Transfer Restricted Securities; that, if after any such reduction in interest rate, a different Registration Default occurs, the interest rate borne by the relevant Transfer Restricted Securities shall again be increased pursuant to the foregoing provisions. Additional Interest shall not accrue or be payable for more than one Registration Default at any given time, and shall accrue only for those days that a Registration Default occurs and is continuing.
provided, however,
     All obligations of the Company and the Guarantors set forth in the preceding paragraph that are outstanding with respect to any Transfer Restricted Security at the time such security ceases to be a Transfer Restricted Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such security shall have been satisfied in full.
          SECTION 6. .
Registration Procedures
     (a) . In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company and the Guarantors shall comply with all of the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof, shall use their reasonable best efforts to effect such exchange to permit the sale of Transfer Restricted Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and shall comply with all of the following provisions:
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
     (i) If in the reasonable opinion of counsel to the Company, there is a question as to whether the Exchange Offer is permitted by applicable law, each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees to seek a no-action letter or other favorable decision from the Commission allowing the Company and the Guarantors to Consummate an Exchange Offer for such Transfer Restricted Securities. Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees to pursue the issuance of such a decision to the Commission staff level but shall not be required to take commercially unreasonable action to effect a change of Commission policy. Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees, however, to (A) participate in telephonic conferences with the Commission, (B) deliver to the Commission staff an analysis prepared by counsel to the Company setting forth the legal bases, if any, upon which such counsel has concluded that such an Exchange Offer should be permitted and (C) diligently pursue a favorable resolution by the Commission staff of such submission.
     (ii) As a condition to its participation in the Exchange Offer pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities shall furnish, upon the request of the Company, prior to the Consummation thereof, a written representation to the Company (which may be contained in the letter of transmittal contemplated by the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to the effect that (A) it is not an affiliate of the Company or any Guarantor, (B) it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in, a distribution
 
of the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer and (C) it is acquiring the Exchange Securities in its ordinary course of business. In addition, all such Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities shall otherwise cooperate in the Company's preparations for the Exchange Offer. Each Holder hereby acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the securities to be acquired in the Exchange Offer (1) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission enunciated in (available June 5, 1991) and (available May 13, 1988), as interpreted in the Commission's letter to Shearman & Sterling dated July 2, 1993, and similar no-action letters (which may include any no-action letter obtained pursuant to clause (i) above), and (2) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act in connection with a secondary resale transaction and that such a secondary resale transaction should be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 or 508, as applicable, of Regulation S-K if the resales are of Exchange Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company.
Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc.
Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation
     (b) . If required pursuant to Section 4, in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, each of the Company and the Guarantors shall comply with all the provisions of Section 6(c) hereof and shall use its reasonable best efforts to effect such registration to permit the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and pursuant thereto the Company and the Guarantors will use their reasonable best efforts to prepare and file with the Commission a Registration Statement relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the Securities Act, which form shall be available for the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof.
Shelf Registration Statement
     (c) . In connection with any Registration Statement and any Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Transfer Restricted Securities (including, without limitation, any Registration Statement and the related Prospectus required to permit resales of Transfer Restricted Securities by any Broker-Dealers), each of the Company and the Guarantors shall:
General Provisions
     (i) use its reasonable best efforts to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective and provide all requisite financial statements (including any consolidating footnotes with respect to any Guarantors if required by the Securities Act) for the period specified in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable; upon the occurrence of any event that would cause any such Registration Statement or the Prospectus contained therein (A) to contain a material misstatement or omission or (B) not to be effective and usable for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities during the period required by this Agreement, the Company shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to such Registration Statement, in the case of clause (A), correcting any such misstatement or omission, and, in the case of either clause (A) or (B), use its reasonable best efforts to cause such amendment to be declared effective and such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus to become usable for their intended purpose(s) as soon as practicable thereafter;
 
     (ii) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the applicable Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement effective for the applicable period set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, or such shorter period as will terminate when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement have been sold; cause the Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act, and to comply fully with the applicable provisions of Rules 424, 430A and 430B under the Securities Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in such Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus;
     (iii) advise the underwriter(s), if any, and selling Holders promptly and, if requested by such Persons, to confirm such advice in writing, (A) when the Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to any Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective, (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to the Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement under the Securities Act or of the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes, and (D) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading. If at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under state securities or blue sky laws, each of the Company and the Guarantors shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time;
     (iv) furnish without charge to each of the Initial Purchasers, and at their request, each selling Holder named in any Registration Statement, and each of the underwriter(s), if any, before filing with the Commission, copies of any Registration Statement or any Prospectus included therein or any amendments or supplements to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all documents incorporated by reference after the initial filing of such Registration Statement), which documents will be subject to the review and comment of such Holders and underwriter(s) in connection with such sale, if any, for a period of at least five Business Days, and the Company will not file any such Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any such Registration Statement or Prospectus (including all such documents
 
incorporated by reference) to which an Initial Purchaser of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement or the underwriter(s), if any, shall reasonably object in writing within five Business Days after the receipt thereof (such objection to be deemed timely made upon confirmation of telecopy transmission within such period). Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prohibit the Company or any Guarantor from filing any document pursuant to the Exchange Act so long as the Initial Purchasers of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement and the underwriter(s), if any, have been (x) provided with notice of the Company's or such Guarantor's intention to make such filing as soon as practicable and (y) furnished with a copy of the proposed filing in advance of the filing thereof with the Commission.The objection of an Initial Purchaser or underwriter, if any, shall be deemed to be reasonable if such Registration Statement, amendment, Prospectus or supplement, as applicable, as proposed to be filed, contains a material misstatement or omission;
     (v) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, promptly prior to the filing of any document that is to be incorporated by reference into a Registration Statement or Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers, and at their request, each selling Holder named in any Registration Statement, and to the underwriter(s), if any, make the Company's and the Guarantors' representatives available for discussion of such document and other customary due diligence matters, and include such information in such document prior to the filing thereof as such selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, reasonably may request;
     (vi) make available at reasonable times for inspection by the Initial Purchasers, the managing underwriter(s), if any, participating in any disposition pursuant to such Registration Statement and any attorney or accountant retained by such Initial Purchasers or any of the underwriter(s), all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of each of the Company and the Guarantors and cause the Company's and the Guarantors  officers, directors and employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Holder, underwriter, attorney or accountant in connection with such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto subsequent to the filing thereof and prior to its effectiveness and to participate in meetings with investors to the extent requested by the managing underwriter(s), if any;
     (vii) if requested by any selling Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, promptly incorporate in any Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such selling Holders and underwriter(s), if any, may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation, information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Transfer Restricted Securities, information with respect to the principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being sold to such underwriter(s), the purchase price being paid therefor and any other terms of the offering of the Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold in such offering; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be incorporated in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;
 
     (viii) cause the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Securities covered thereby or the underwriter(s), if any;
     (ix) furnish to each Initial Purchaser and, at their request, each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, at least one copy of the Registration Statement, as first filed with the Commission, and of each amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules and all exhibits included therein (excluding exhibits incorporated therein by reference);
     (x) deliver to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Persons reasonably may request; each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby consents to the use of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and each of the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
     (xi) enter into such agreements (including an underwriting agreement), and make such representations and warranties, and take all such other actions in connection therewith in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of the Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement, all to such extent as may be reasonably requested by any Initial Purchaser or by any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or underwriter in connection with any sale or resale pursuant to any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement; and whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an Underwritten Registration, each of the Company and the Guarantors shall:
     (A) furnish to each Initial Purchaser and, at their request, each selling Holder, and each underwriter, if any, in such substance and scope as they may reasonably request and as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings, upon the date of the Consummation of the Exchange Offer or, if applicable, the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement:
     (1) a certificate, dated the date of Consummation of the Exchange Offer or the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, signed by (y) the President or any Vice President and (z) a principal financial or accounting officer of each of the Company and the Guarantors, confirming, as of the date thereof, the matters set forth in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Section 5(f) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request;
     (2) an opinion, dated the date of Consummation of the Exchange Offer or the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, of counsel for the Company and the
 
Guarantors, covering the matters set forth in Section 5(d) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request, and in any event including a statement to the effect that such counsel has participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company and the Guarantors, representatives of the independent public accountants for the Company and the Guarantors, representatives of the underwriter(s), if any, and counsel to the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the preparation of such Registration Statement and the related Prospectus and have considered the matters required to be stated therein and the statements contained therein, although such counsel has not independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements; and that such counsel advises that, on the basis of the foregoing, no facts came to such counsel's attention that caused such counsel to believe that the applicable Registration Statement, at the time such Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto became effective, and, in the case of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as of the date of Consummation, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or that the Prospectus contained in such Registration Statement as of its date and, in the case of the opinion dated the date of Consummation of the Exchange Offer, as of the date of Consummation, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. Without limiting the foregoing, such counsel may state further that such counsel assumes no responsibility for, and has not independently verified, the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the financial statements, notes and schedules and other financial data included in any Registration Statement contemplated by this Agreement or the related Prospectus; and
     (3) a customary comfort letter, dated the date of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, from the Company's independent accountants, in the customary form and covering matters of the type customarily requested to be covered in comfort letters by underwriters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, and covering or affirming the matters set forth in the comfort letters delivered pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Purchase Agreement, without exception;
     (B) set forth in full or incorporate by reference in the underwriting agreement, if any, the indemnification provisions and procedures of Section 8 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section; and
     (C) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by such parties to evidence compliance with Section 6(c)(xi)(A) hereof and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other agreement entered into by the Company or any of the Guarantors pursuant to this Section 6(c)(xi), if any.
 
     If at any time the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contemplated in Section 6(c)(xi)(A)(1) hereof cease to be true and correct, the Company or the Guarantors shall so advise the Initial Purchasers and the underwriter(s), if any, and each selling Holder promptly and, if requested by such Persons, shall confirm such advice in writing;
     (xii) prior to any public offering of Transfer Restricted Securities, reasonably cooperate with the selling Holders, the underwriter(s), if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration and qualification of the Transfer Restricted Securities under the state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as the selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, may request and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement; provided, however, that none of the Company nor the Guarantors shall be required to register or qualify as a foreign corporation where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to the service of process in suits or to taxation, other than as to matters and transactions relating to the Registration Statement, in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject;
     (xiii) issue, upon the request of any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement, Exchange Securities having an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities surrendered to the Company by such Holder in exchange therefor or being sold by such Holder; such Exchange Securities to be registered in the name of such Holder or in the name of the purchaser(s) of such Securities, as the case may be; in return, the Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holder shall be surrendered to the Company for cancellation;
     (xiv) reasonably cooperate with the selling Holders and the underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Transfer Restricted Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, may request at least two Business Days prior to any sale of Transfer Restricted Securities made by such Holders or underwriter(s);
     (xv) use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof or the underwriter(s), if any, to consummate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities, subject to the proviso contained in Section 6(c)(xii) hereof;
     (xvi) if any fact or event contemplated by Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof shall exist or have occurred, prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the
 
purchasers of Transfer Restricted Securities, the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading;
     (xvii) provide a CUSIP number for all Securities not later than the effective date of the Registration Statement covering such Securities and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with printed certificates for such Securities which are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and take all other action necessary to ensure that all such Securities are eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company;
     (xviii) reasonably cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with FINRA and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter (including any "qualified independent underwriter") that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of FINRA;
     (xix) otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make generally available to its security holders, as soon as practicable, a consolidated earnings statement meeting the requirements of Rule 158 under the Securities Act (which need not be audited) for the twelve-month period (A) commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Transfer Restricted Securities are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts Underwritten Offering or (B) if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Registration Statement;
     (xx) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act not later than the effective date of the first Registration Statement required by this Agreement, and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders of Securities to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for such Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the Trust Indenture Act; and to execute and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
     (xxi) cause all Securities covered by the Registration Statement to be listed on each securities exchange or automated quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed if reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Securities or the managing underwriter(s), if any; and
     (xxii) provide promptly to each Holder upon request each document filed with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 and Section 15 of the Exchange Act.
     Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Transfer Restricted Security that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section
 
6(c)(iii)(D) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the applicable Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xvi) hereof, or until it is advised in writing (the "Advice") by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus. If so directed by the Company, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Transfer Restricted Securities that was current at the time of receipt of such notice. In the event the Company shall give any such notice, the time period regarding the effectiveness of such Registration Statement set forth in Section 3 or 4 hereof, as applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice pursuant to Section 6(c)(iii)(D) hereof to and including the date when each selling Holder covered by such Registration Statement shall have received the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 6(c)(xvi) hereof or shall have received the Advice; that no such extension shall be taken into account in determining whether Additional Interest is due pursuant to Section 5 hereof or the amount of such Additional Interest, it being agreed that the Company's option to suspend use of a Registration Statement pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a Registration Default for purposes of Section 5 hereof.
provided, however,
     In addition, the Company may suspend the offering and sales under the Exchange Offer Registration Statement subsequent to the Consummation of the Exchange Offer or the Shelf Registration Statement for up to 45 days in each year during which such Exchange Offer Registration Statement is required to be effective and usable hereunder subsequent to the Consummation of the Exchange Offer or such Shelf Registration Statement is required to be effective and usable hereunder (measured from the date of effectiveness of such Shelf Registration Statement to successive anniversaries thereof):
     if (1) either:
(A) the Company shall be engaged in a material acquisition or disposition and (i) such acquisition or disposition is required to be disclosed in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, the related Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, or the failure by the Company to disclose such transaction in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, as then amended or supplemented, would cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement, or amendment thereto, to contain an untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statement therein not misleading, or would cause such Prospectus, or supplement thereto, to contain an untrue statement of material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statement therein not misleading, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, (ii) information regarding the existence of such
 
acquisition or disposition has not then been publicly disclosed by or on behalf of the Company and (iii) a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company determines in the exercise of its good faith judgment that disclosure of such acquisition or disposition would not be in the best interest of the Company or would have a material adverse effect on the consummation of such acquisition or disposition; or
(B) a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company determines in the exercise of its good faith judgment that compliance with the disclosure obligations set forth in Section 6(a) would otherwise have a material adverse effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (the matters described in clauses (A) and (B) are each referred to herein as a "Permitted Suspension Event"); and
     (2) the Company notifies the Holders within two Business Days after such Board of Directors makes the relevant determination set forth in clause (1); provided, however, that in each such case the applicable period specified in Section 3 (subsequent to the Consummation of the Exchange Offer) and Section 4 hereof during which the applicable Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and usable shall be extended by the number of days during which such effectiveness was suspended pursuant to the foregoing and Additional Interest shall not apply during any period the Company is permitted to suspend offerings and sales under this sentence for a Permitted Suspension Event.
     SECTION 7. .
Registration Expenses
     (a) All expenses incident to the Company's and the Guarantors' performance of or compliance with this Agreement will be borne by the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, regardless of whether a Registration Statement becomes effective, including, without limitation: (i) all registration and filing fees and expenses (including filings made by any Initial Purchaser or Holder with FINRA); (ii) all fees and expenses of compliance with federal securities and state securities or blue sky laws; (iii) all expenses of printing (including printing certificates for the Exchange Securities to be issued in the Exchange Offer and printing of Prospectuses), messenger and delivery services and telephone; (iv) all fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, the Guarantors and, subject to Section 7(b) hereof, the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; (v) all application and filing fees in connection with listing the Exchange Securities on a securities exchange or automated quotation system pursuant to the requirements thereof; and (vi) all fees and disbursements of independent certified public accountants of the Company and the Guarantors (including the expenses of any special audit and comfort letters required by or incident to such performance). Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to Section 7(b) below, the Holders for whose benefit a Registration Statement is being prepared shall pay all agency fees, underwriting discounts, commissions, fees and disbursements of counsel to the underwriters or the Holder(s), and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Securities by a Holder.
 
     Each of the Company and the Guarantors will, in any event, bear its internal expenses (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expenses of any annual audit and the fees and expenses of any Person, including special experts, retained by the Company or the Guarantors.
     (b) In connection with any Registration Statement required by this Agreement (including, without limitation, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the Shelf Registration Statement), the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, will reimburse the Initial Purchasers and the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities being tendered in the Exchange Offer and/or resold pursuant to the "Plan of Distribution" contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or registered pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, for the reasonable fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel, who acts for all of the Initial Purchasers and such Holders, who shall be Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP or such other counsel as may be chosen by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities for whose benefit such Registration Statement is being prepared.
     SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
     (a) Each of the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless (i) each Holder and (ii) each Person, if any, who controls (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) any Holder (any of the Persons referred to in this clause (ii) being hereinafter referred to as a "controlling person") and (iii) the officers, directors, employees and agents of any Holder (any Person referred to in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) may hereinafter be referred to as an "Indemnified Holder"), from and against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses (including, without limitation, and as incurred, reimbursement of all reasonable costs incurred in connection with investigating, defending, settling (if such settlement is effectuated with the written consent of the Company and Guarantors as provided herein), compromising or paying any claim or action, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body) to which an Indemnified Holder may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions and expenses arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in both cases except insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses arise out of or are based upon an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission that is made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any of the Holders furnished in writing to the Company by any of the Holders expressly for use therein. This indemnity agreement shall be in addition to any liability that the Company or any of the Guarantors may otherwise have.
 
     In case any action or proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation or proceeding) shall be brought or asserted against any of the Indemnified Holders with respect to which indemnity may be sought against the Company or the Guarantors, such Indemnified Holder (or the Indemnified Holder controlled by such controlling person) shall promptly notify the Company and the Guarantors in writing of such action or proceeding; provided, however, that the failure to give such notice shall not relieve any of the Company or the Guarantors from any liability which they may have hereunder to the extent they are not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure, and will not in any event relieve the Company or the Guarantors from any other obligation or liability that they may have to any Indemnified Holder other than pursuant to this Agreement. In case any such action is brought against any Indemnified Holder and such Indemnified Holder seeks or intends to seek indemnity from the Company and the Guarantors, the Company and the Guarantors will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that they shall elect, by written notice delivered to the Indemnified Holder, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Holder; provided, however, such Indemnified Holder shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Holder, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by any of the Company or Guarantors; (ii) the Company or the Guarantors have failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Holder; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such Indemnified Holder and the Company or the Guarantors or any affiliates of the Company or the Guarantors, and such Indemnified Holder shall have reasonably concluded, based on advice from counsel, that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the Company or the Guarantors or any affiliate of the Company or the Guarantors or (y) a conflict may exist between such Indemnified Holder and the Company or the Guarantors or such affiliate of the Company or the Guarantors in conducting the defense of any such action (it being understood, however, that the Company and the Guarantors shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such Indemnified Holders, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Holders and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the Company and the Guarantors to such Indemnified Holder of the Company's or the Guarantors' election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the Indemnified Holder of counsel, the Company and the Guarantors will not be liable to such Indemnified Holder under this Section 8(a) for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such Indemnified Holder in connection with the defense thereof unless the Indemnified Holder shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the Company and the Guarantors. The Company and the Guarantors shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without their written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Company and the Guarantors agree to indemnify the Indemnified Holder against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Holder shall have requested the Company and the Guarantors to reimburse the Indemnified Holder for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this
 
Section 8 hereof, the Company and the Guarantors agree that they shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without their written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Company and the Guarantors of the aforesaid request and (ii) the Company and the Guarantors shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Holder in accordance with such request or disputed in good faith the Indemnified Holder's entitlement to such reimbursement prior to the date of such settlement. The Company and the Guarantors shall not, without the prior written consent of each Indemnified Holder, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in which any Indemnified Holder is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder, unless such settlement, compromise, or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each Indemnified Holder from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any Indemnified Holder.
     (b) Each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors and their respective directors, officers of the Company and the Guarantors who sign a Registration Statement, and any Person controlling (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act) the Company or any of the Guarantors, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company and the Guarantors to each of the Indemnified Holders, but only with respect to claims and actions based on information relating to such Holder furnished in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement or Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). In case any action or proceeding shall be brought against the Company, the Guarantors or their respective directors or officers or any such controlling person in respect of which indemnity may be sought against a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities, such Holder shall have the rights and duties given the Company and the Guarantors, and the Company, the Guarantors, their respective directors and officers and such controlling person shall have the rights and duties given to each Holder by the preceding paragraph.
     (c) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 8 is unavailable to an indemnified party under Section 8(a) or (b) hereof (other than by reason of exceptions provided in those Sections) or is otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, actions or expenses referred to therein, then each applicable indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement (which in the case of the Company and the Guarantors shall be deemed to be equal to the total gross proceeds to the Company and the Guarantors from the Initial Placement), the amount of Additional Interest which did not become payable as a result of the filing of the Registration Statement resulting in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments actions or expenses, and such Registration Statement, or if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the
 
Indemnified Holder on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or any of the Guarantors, on the one hand, or the Indemnified Holders, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in the second paragraph of Section 8(a) hereof, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim. The provisions set forth in Section 8(a) hereof with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for contribution is to be made under this Section 8(c); provided, however, that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 8 hereof for purposes of indemnification.
     The Company, the Guarantors and each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(c) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, none of the Initial Purchasers (and their related Indemnified Holders) shall be required to contribute, in the aggregate, any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discount received by such Holder with respect to the Securities exceeds the amount of any damages which such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Holders' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8(c) are several, and not joint, in proportion to the respective principal amount of Securities held by each of the Holders hereunder.
     SECTION 9.
Rule 144A.
     Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees with each Holder, for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding, to make available to any Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities in connection with any sale thereof and any prospective purchaser of such Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder or beneficial owner, the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act in order to permit resales of such Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
     SECTION 10. .
Participation in Underwritten Registrations
 
     No Holder may participate in any Underwritten Registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all reasonable questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements, lock-up letters and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
     SECTION 11. .
Selection of Underwriters
     The Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement who desire to do so may sell such Transfer Restricted Securities in an Underwritten Offering. In any such Underwritten Offering, the investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) that will administer such offering will be selected by the Company, provided, however, that such investment banker(s) and managing underwriter(s) must be reasonably satisfactory to the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering.
     SECTION 12. .
Miscellaneous
     (a) . Each of the Company and the Guarantors hereby agrees that monetary damages may not be adequate compensation for any loss incurred by reason of a breach by it of the provisions of this Agreement and hereby agree to waive the defense in any action for specific performance that a remedy at law would be adequate.
Remedies
     (b) . Each of the Company and the Guarantors will not on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. Neither the Company nor any of the Guarantors has previously entered into any agreement granting any registration rights with respect to its securities to any Person which requires the filing of a registration statement in the future or allows any party to piggyback on a Registration Statement, other than as described on Schedule B hereto. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's or any of the Guarantors' securities under any agreement in effect on the date hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
     (c) . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to or departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has (i) in the case of Section 5 hereof and this Section 12(c)(i), obtained the written consent of Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities and (ii) in the case of all other provisions hereof, obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities (excluding any Transfer Restricted Securities held by the Company or its affiliates). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose securities are being tendered pursuant to the Exchange Offer and that does not affect directly or indirectly the rights of other Holders whose securities are not being tendered pursuant to such Exchange Offer may be given by the Holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities being
Amendments and Waivers
 
tendered or registered; provided, however, that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each such Initial Purchaser with respect to which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver, consent or departure is to be effective.
     (d) . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, fascimile, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices
     (i) if to a Holder, at the address set forth on the records of the registrar under the Indenture, with a copy to the registrar under the Indenture; and
     (ii) if to the Company:
Republic Services, Inc. 18500 North Allied Way Phoenix, Arizona 85054 Fax No.: (480) 627-7150 Attention: Mike Rissman, Executive Vice President and General Counsel
With a copy to:
Mayer Brown LLP 71 South Wacker Driver Chicago, IL 60606 Fax No.: (312)701-7711 Attention: Jodi Simala
     All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
     Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address specified in the Indenture.
     (e) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties, including, without limitation, and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities; provided, however, that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign acquired Transfer Restricted Securities from such Holder, which successor or assign shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by all of the terms of this Agreement by virtue of taking and holding such acquired Transfer Restricted Securities.
Successors and Assigns
 
     (f) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
     (g) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
     (h) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW RULES THEREOF.
Governing Law
     (i) . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
     (j) . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BENTON COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY CLINTON COUNTY LANDFILL PARTNERSHIP COUNTY LINE LANDFILL PARTNERSHIP ILLIANA DISPOSAL PARTNERSHIP JASPER COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY PARTNERSHIP KEY WASTE INDIANA PARTNERSHIP LAKE COUNTY C & D DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIP NEWTON COUNTY LANDFILL PARTNERSHIP SPRINGFIELD ENVIRONMENTAL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP TIPPECANOE COUNTY WASTE SERVICES PARTNERSHIP WARRICK COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
 
BENSON VALLEY LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP BLUE RIDGE LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP GREEN VALLEY LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP MOREHEAD LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP
REPUBLIC WASTE SERVICES OF TEXAS, LTD. RWS TRANSPORT, L.P.
 
BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
 
 
 
     The foregoing Registration Rights Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written:
 
SCHEDULE A
623 LANDFILL, INC. A D A J CORPORATION ACTION DISPOSAL, INC. ADA COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, INC. ADRIAN LANDFILL, INC. ADS OF ILLINOIS, INC. ADS, INC. AGRICULTURAL ACQUISITIONS, LLC AGRI-TECH, INC. OF OREGON ALABAMA RECYCLING SERVICES, INC. ALBANY  LEBANON SANITATION, INC. ALLIED ACQUISITION PENNSYLVANIA, INC. ALLIED ACQUISITION TWO, INC. ALLIED ENVIROENGINEERING, INC. ALLIED GAS RECOVERY SYSTEMS, L.L.C. ALLIED GREEN POWER, INC. ALLIED NOVA SCOTIA, INC. ALLIED SERVICES, LLC ALLIED TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF NEW JERSEY, LLC ALLIED WASTE ALABAMA, INC. ALLIED WASTE COMPANY, INC. ALLIED WASTE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC ALLIED WASTE HAULING OF GEORGIA, INC. ALLIED WASTE HOLDINGS (CANADA) LTD. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES (ARIZONA), INC. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES (NEW MEXICO), INC. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES (SOUTHWEST), INC. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES OF GEORGIA, INC. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES OF ILLINOIS, INC. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES OF NORTHWEST INDIANA, INC. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES OF TENNESSEE, INC. ALLIED WASTE INDUSTRIES, INC. ALLIED WASTE LANDFILL HOLDINGS, INC. ALLIED WASTE NIAGARA FALLS LANDFILL, LLC ALLIED WASTE NORTH AMERICA, INC. ALLIED WASTE OF CALIFORNIA, INC. ALLIED WASTE OF LONG ISLAND, INC. ALLIED WASTE OF NEW JERSEY, INC. ALLIED WASTE OF NEW JERSEY-NEW YORK, LLC ALLIED WASTE RECYCLING SERVICES OF NEW HAMPSHIRE, LLC ALLIED WASTE RURAL SANITATION, INC. ALLIED WASTE SERVICES OF COLORADO, INC. ALLIED WASTE SERVICES OF MASSACHUSETTS, LLC ALLIED WASTE SERVICES OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC ALLIED WASTE SERVICES OF PAGE, INC. ALLIED WASTE SERVICES OF STILLWATER, INC. ALLIED WASTE SYCAMORE LANDFILL, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS HOLDINGS, INC.
 
ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF ARIZONA, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF COLORADO, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF INDIANA, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF MICHIGAN, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF MONTANA, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF NEW JERSEY, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF NORTH CAROLINA, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS OF PENNSYLVANIA, LLC ALLIED WASTE SYSTEMS, INC. ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF ARIZONA, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF CALIFORNIA, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF FLORIDA, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF IOWA, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF LIMA, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF NEW YORK, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF NORTH CAROLINA, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF OREGON, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF RHODE ISLAND, LLC ALLIED WASTE TRANSFER SERVICES OF UTAH, INC. ALLIED WASTE TRANSPORTATION, INC. AMERICAN DISPOSAL SERVICES OF ILLINOIS, INC. AMERICAN DISPOSAL SERVICES OF KANSAS, INC. AMERICAN DISPOSAL SERVICES OF MISSOURI, INC. AMERICAN DISPOSAL SERVICES OF NEW JERSEY, INC. AMERICAN DISPOSAL SERVICES OF WEST VIRGINIA, INC. AMERICAN DISPOSAL SERVICES, INC. AMERICAN DISPOSAL TRANSFER SERVICES OF ILLINOIS, INC. AMERICAN MATERIALS RECYCLING CORP. AMERICAN SANITATION, INC. AMERICAN TRANSFER COMPANY, INC. ANSON COUNTY LANDFILL NC, LLC APACHE JUNCTION LANDFILL CORPORATION ARC DISPOSAL COMPANY, INC. AREA DISPOSAL, INC. ARIANA, LLC ATLANTIC WASTE HOLDING COMPANY, INC. ATLAS TRANSPORT, INC. ATTWOODS OF NORTH AMERICA, INC. AUTAUGA COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC AUTOMATED MODULAR SYSTEMS, INC. AUTOSHRED, INC. AWIN LEASING COMPANY, INC. AWIN LEASING II, LLC AWIN MANAGEMENT, INC. BARKER BROTHERS WASTE INCORPORATED BAY COLLECTION SERVICES, INC. BAY ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, INC. BAY LANDFILLS, INC. BAY LEASING COMPANY, INC. BBCO, INC. BELLEVILLE LANDFILL, INC.
 
BERKELEY SANITARY SERVICE, INC. BFGSI, L.L.C. BFI ATLANTIC, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF ALBANY, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF DELAWARE COUNTY, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF ESSEX COUNTY, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF HEMPSTEAD, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF NIAGARA II, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF NIAGARA, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF SEMASS, INC. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT, INC. BFI INTERNATIONAL, INC. BFI REF-FUEL, INC. BFI TRANS RIVER (GP), INC. BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF ALABAMA, LLC BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF DC, LLC BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF GEORGIA, LLC BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF MARYLAND, LLC BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF MASSACHUSETTS, LLC BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF MISSISSIPPI, LLC BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF NEW JERSEY, INC. BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF PENNSYLVANIA, LLC BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF VIRGINIA, LLC BFI WASTE SERVICES OF PENNSYLVANIA, LLC BFI WASTE SERVICES OF TENNESSEE, LLC BFI WASTE SERVICES, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF ALABAMA, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF ARKANSAS, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF GEORGIA, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF KENTUCKY, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF LOUISIANA, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF MASSACHUSETTS, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF MISSISSIPPI, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF MISSOURI, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF NEW JERSEY, INC. BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF NORTH CAROLINA, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF OKLAHOMA, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF SOUTH CAROLINA, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF TENNESSEE, LLC BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF VIRGINIA, LLC BIO-MED OF OREGON, INC. BLT ENTERPRISES OF OXNARD, INC. BOND COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. BORREGO LANDFILL, INC. BORROW PIT CORP. BRICKYARD DISPOSAL & RECYCLING, INC. BRIDGETON LANDFILL, LLC BRIDGETON TRANSFER STATION, LLC BROWNING-FERRIS FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES CHEMICAL SERVICES, INC.
 
BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF CALIFORNIA, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF FLORIDA, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF ILLINOIS, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF NEW JERSEY, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF NEW YORK, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF OHIO, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES OF TENNESSEE, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS INDUSTRIES, LLC BROWNING-FERRIS SERVICES, INC. BROWNING-FERRIS, INC. BRUNSWICK WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY, LLC BUNTING TRASH SERVICE, INC. BUTLER COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC C & C EXPANDED SANITARY LANDFILL, LLC CACTUS WASTE SYSTEMS, LLC CALVERT TRASH SYSTEMS, INCORPORATED CAPITOL RECYCLING AND DISPOSAL, INC. CARBON LIMESTONE LANDFILL, LLC CC LANDFILL, INC. CECOS INTERNATIONAL, INC. CELINA LANDFILL, INC. CENTRAL ARIZONA TRANSFER, INC. CENTRAL SANITARY LANDFILL, INC. CENTRAL VIRGINIA PROPERTIES, LLC CHARTER EVAPORATION RESOURCE RECOVERY SYSTEMS CHEROKEE RUN LANDFILL, INC. CHILTON LANDFILL, LLC CITIZENS DISPOSAL, INC. CITY-STAR SERVICES, INC. CLARKSTON DISPOSAL, INC. COCOPAH LANDFILL, INC. COMPACTOR RENTAL SYSTEMS OF DELAWARE, INC. CONSOLIDATED DISPOSAL SERVICE, L.L.C. CONTINENTAL WASTE INDUSTRIES, L.L.C. COPPER MOUNTAIN LANDFILL, INC. CORVALLIS DISPOSAL CO. COUNTY DISPOSAL (OHIO), INC. COUNTY DISPOSAL, INC. COUNTY ENVIRONMENTAL LANDFILL, LLC COUNTY LAND DEVELOPMENT LANDFILL, LLC COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. COURTNEY RIDGE LANDFILL, LLC CRESCENT ACRES LANDFILL, LLC CROCKETT SANITARY SERVICE, INC. CUMBERLAND COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LLC CWI OF ILLINOIS, INC. CWI OF MISSOURI, INC. D & L DISPOSAL, L.L.C. DALLAS DISPOSAL CO. DELTA CONTAINER CORPORATION
 
DELTA DADE RECYCLING CORP. DELTA PAPER STOCK, CO. DELTA RESOURCES CORP. DELTA SITE DEVELOPMENT CORP. DELTA WASTE CORP. DEMPSEY WASTE SYSTEMS II, INC. DENVER RL NORTH, INC. DTC MANAGEMENT, INC. E LEASING COMPANY, LLC EAGLE INDUSTRIES LEASING, INC. EAST CHICAGO COMPOST FACILITY, INC. ECDC ENVIRONMENTAL OF HUMBOLDT COUNTY, INC. ECDC ENVIRONMENTAL, L.C. ECDC HOLDINGS, INC. ELDER CREEK TRANSFER & RECOVERY, INC. ELLIS SCOTT LANDFILL MO, LLC ENVIROCYCLE, INC. ENVIRONMENTAL DEVELOPMENT CORP. ENVIRONMENTAL RECLAMATION COMPANY ENVIRONTECH, INC. ENVOTECH-ILLINOIS L.L.C. EVERGREEN SCAVENGER SERVICE, INC. EVERGREEN SCAVENGER SERVICE, L.L.C. F. P. MCNAMARA RUBBISH REMOVAL INC. FLINT HILL ROAD, LLC FLL, INC. FOREST VIEW LANDFILL, LLC FORWARD, INC. FRED BARBARA TRUCKING CO., INC. FRONTIER WASTE SERVICES (COLORADO), LLC FRONTIER WASTE SERVICES (UTAH), LLC FRONTIER WASTE SERVICES OF LOUISIANA L.L.C. G. VAN DYKEN DISPOSAL INC. GATEWAY LANDFILL, LLC GEK, INC. GENERAL REFUSE ROLLOFF CORP. GENERAL REFUSE SERVICE OF OHIO, L.L.C. GEORGIA RECYCLING SERVICES, INC. GOLDEN BEAR TRANSFER SERVICES, INC. GOLDEN WASTE DISPOSAL, INC. GRANTS PASS SANITATION, INC. GREAT LAKES DISPOSAL SERVICE, INC. GREAT PLAINS LANDFILL OK, LLC GREENRIDGE RECLAMATION, LLC GREENRIDGE WASTE SERVICES, LLC GULFCOAST WASTE SERVICE, INC. H LEASING COMPANY, LLC HANCOCK COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LLC HARLAND'S SANITARY LANDFILL, INC. HARRISON COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC HONEYGO RUN RECLAMATION CENTER, INC.
 
ILLINOIS LANDFILL, INC. ILLINOIS RECYCLING SERVICES, INC. ILLINOIS VALLEY RECYCLING, INC. IMPERIAL LANDFILL, INC. INDEPENDENT TRUCKING COMPANY INGRUM WASTE DISPOSAL, INC. INTERNATIONAL DISPOSAL CORP. OF CALIFORNIA ISLAND WASTE SERVICES LTD. JACKSON COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC JEFFERSON CITY LANDFILL, LLC JEFFERSON PARISH DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LLC JETTER DISPOSAL, INC. KANDEL ENTERPRISES, LLC KANKAKEE QUARRY, INC. KELLER CANYON LANDFILL COMPANY KELLER DROP BOX, INC. LA CAADA DISPOSAL COMPANY, INC. LAKE NORMAN LANDFILL, INC. LANDCOMP CORPORATION LATHROP SUNRISE SANITATION CORPORATION LEE COUNTY LANDFILL SC, LLC LEE COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. LEMONS LANDFILL, LLC LIBERTY WASTE HOLDINGS, INC. LIBERTY WASTE SERVICES LIMITED, L.L.C. LIBERTY WASTE SERVICES OF ILLINOIS, L.L.C. LIBERTY WASTE SERVICES OF MCCOOK, L.L.C. LITTLE CREEK LANDING, LLC LOCAL SANITATION OF ROWAN COUNTY, L.L.C. LOOP RECYCLING, INC. LOOP TRANSFER, INCORPORATED LORAIN COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC LOUIS PINTO & SON, INC., SANITATION CONTRACTORS LUCAS COUNTY LAND DEVELOPMENT, INC. LUCAS COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC MADISON COUNTY DEVELOPMENT, LLC MANUMIT OF FLORIDA, INC. MCCUSKER RECYCLING, INC. MCINNIS WASTE SYSTEMS, INC. MENANDS ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS, LLC MESA DISPOSAL, INC. MIDWAY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, INC. MISSISSIPPI WASTE PAPER COMPANY MISSOURI CITY LANDFILL, LLC MOUNTAIN HOME DISPOSAL, INC. N LEASING COMPANY, LLC NATIONSWASTE CATAWBA REGIONAL LANDFILL, INC. NATIONSWASTE, INC. NCORP, INC. NEW MORGAN LANDFILL COMPANY, INC. NEW YORK WASTE SERVICES, LLC
 
NEWCO WASTE SYSTEMS OF NEW JERSEY, INC. NOBLE ROAD LANDFILL, INC. NORTHEAST LANDFILL, LLC NORTHLAKE TRANSFER, INC. NORTHWEST TENNESSEE DISPOSAL CORPORATION OAKLAND HEIGHTS DEVELOPMENT, INC. OBSCURITY LAND DEVELOPMENT, LLC OHIO REPUBLIC CONTRACTS, II, INC. OHIO REPUBLIC CONTRACTS, INC. OKLAHOMA CITY LANDFILL, L.L.C. OSCAR'S COLLECTION SYSTEM OF FREMONT, INC. OTAY LANDFILL, INC. OTTAWA COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. PACKERTON LAND COMPANY, L.L.C. PALOMAR TRANSFER STATION, INC. PELTIER REAL ESTATE COMPANY PERDOMO & SONS, INC. PINAL COUNTY LANDFILL CORP. PINECREST LANDFILL OK, LLC PITTSBURG COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. POLK COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC PORT CLINTON LANDFILL, INC. PORTABLE STORAGE CO. PREBLE COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. PRICE & SONS RECYCLING COMPANY PRINCE GEORGE'S COUNTY LANDFILL, LLC R.C. MILLER ENTERPRISES, INC. R.C. MILLER REFUSE SERVICE INC. RABANCO RECYCLING, INC. RABANCO, LTD. RAMONA LANDFILL, INC. RCS, INC. RELIABLE DISPOSAL, INC. REPUBLIC DUMPCO, INC. REPUBLIC ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGIES, INC. REPUBLIC OHIO CONTRACTS, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES AVIATION, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES FINANCIAL LP, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES GROUP, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES HOLDING COMPANY, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES OF ARIZONA HAULING, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF CALIFORNIA HOLDING COMPANY, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES OF CALIFORNIA II, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF COLORADO HAULING, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF COLORADO I, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF FLORIDA GP, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES OF FLORIDA LP, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES OF GEORGIA GP, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF GEORGIA LP, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF INDIANA LP, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES OF INDIANA TRANSPORTATION, LLC
 
REPUBLIC SERVICES OF KENTUCKY, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF MICHIGAN HAULING, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF MICHIGAN HOLDING COMPANY, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES OF MICHIGAN I, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF MICHIGAN II, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF MICHIGAN III, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF MICHIGAN IV, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF MICHIGAN V, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF NEW JERSEY, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF NORTH CAROLINA, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF OHIO HAULING, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF OHIO I, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF OHIO II, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF OHIO III, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF OHIO IV, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF PENNSYLVANIA, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF SOUTH CAROLINA, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF VIRGINIA, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF WISCONSIN GP, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES OF WISCONSIN LP, LLC REPUBLIC SERVICES REAL ESTATE HOLDING, INC. REPUBLIC SERVICES VASCO ROAD, LLC REPUBLIC SILVER STATE DISPOSAL, INC. REPUBLIC WASTE SERVICES OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA, LLC REPUBLIC WASTE SERVICES OF TEXAS GP, INC. REPUBLIC WASTE SERVICES OF TEXAS LP, INC. RESOURCE RECOVERY, INC. RI/ALAMEDA CORP. RICHMOND SANITARY SERVICE, INC. RISK SERVICES, INC. RITM, LLC ROCK ROAD INDUSTRIES, INC. ROSS BROS. WASTE & RECYCLING CO. ROSSMAN SANITARY SERVICE, INC. ROXANA LANDFILL, INC. ROYAL HOLDINGS, INC. RUBBISH CONTROL, LLC S & S RECYCLING, INC. S LEASING COMPANY, LLC SALINE COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. SAN DIEGO LANDFILL SYSTEMS, LLC SAN MARCOS NCRRF, INC. SAND VALLEY HOLDINGS, L.L.C. SANDY HOLLOW LANDFILL CORP. SANGAMON VALLEY LANDFILL, INC. SANITARY DISPOSAL SERVICE, INC. SAUK TRAIL DEVELOPMENT, INC. SCHOFIELD CORPORATION OF ORLANDO SHOW-ME LANDFILL, LLC SHRED  ALL RECYCLING SYSTEMS INC.
 
SOLANO GARBAGE COMPANY SOURCE RECYCLING, INC. SOUTHEAST LANDFILL, LLC SOUTHERN ILLINOIS REGIONAL LANDFILL, INC. ST. BERNARD PARISH DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LLC ST. JOSEPH LANDFILL, LLC STANDARD DISPOSAL SERVICES, INC. STANDARD ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES, INC. STANDARD WASTE, INC. STREATOR AREA LANDFILL, INC. SUBURBAN TRANSFER, INC. SUBURBAN WAREHOUSE, INC. SUMMIT WASTE SYSTEMS, INC. SUNRISE SANITATION SERVICE, INC. SUNSET DISPOSAL SERVICE, INC. SUNSET DISPOSAL, INC. SYCAMORE LANDFILL, INC. TATE'S TRANSFER SYSTEMS, INC. TAY-BAN CORPORATION TAYLOR RIDGE LANDFILL, INC. TENNESSEE UNION COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. THE ECOLOGY GROUP, INC. THOMAS DISPOSAL SERVICE, INC. TOM LUCIANO'S DISPOSAL SERVICE, INC. TOTAL ROLL-OFFS, L.L.C. TOTAL SOLID WASTE RECYCLERS, INC. TRICIL (N.Y.), INC. TRI-COUNTY REFUSE SERVICE, INC. TRI-STATE RECYCLING SERVICES, INC. TRI-STATE REFUSE CORPORATION UNITED DISPOSAL SERVICE, INC. UPPER ROCK ISLAND COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. VALLEY LANDFILLS, INC. VINING DISPOSAL SERVICE, INC. WASATCH REGIONAL LANDFILL, INC. WASTE CONTROL SYSTEMS, INC. WASTE SERVICES OF NEW YORK, INC. WASTEHAUL, INC. WAYNE COUNTY LAND DEVELOPMENT, LLC WAYNE COUNTY LANDFILL IL, INC. WAYNE DEVELOPERS, LLC WDTR, INC. WEBSTER PARISH LANDFILL, L.L.C. WEST CONTRA COSTA ENERGY RECOVERY COMPANY WEST CONTRA COSTA SANITARY LANDFILL, INC. WEST COUNTY LANDFILL, INC. WEST COUNTY RESOURCE RECOVERY, INC. WILLAMETTE RESOURCES, INC. WILLIAMS COUNTY LANDFILL INC. WILLOW RIDGE LANDFILL, LLC WJR ENVIRONMENTAL, INC.
 
WOODLAKE SANITARY SERVICE, INC. ZAKAROFF SERVICES ABILENE LANDFILL TX, LP BFI TRANSFER SYSTEMS OF TEXAS, LP BFI WASTE SERVICES OF INDIANA, LP BFI WASTE SERVICES OF TEXAS, LP BFI WASTE SYSTEMS OF INDIANA, LP BLUE RIDGE LANDFILL TX, LP BRENHAM TOTAL ROLL-OFFS, LP CAMELOT LANDFILL TX, LP CEFE LANDFILL TX, LP CROW LANDFILL TX, L.P. DESARROLLO DEL RANCHO LA GLORIA TX, LP EL CENTRO LANDFILL, L.P. ELLIS COUNTY LANDFILL TX, LP FORT WORTH LANDFILL TX, LP FRONTIER WASTE SERVICES, L.P. GALVESTON COUNTY LANDFILL TX, LP GILES ROAD LANDFILL TX, LP GOLDEN TRIANGLE LANDFILL TX, LP GREENWOOD LANDFILL TX, LP GULF WEST LANDFILL TX, LP ITASCA LANDFILL TX, LP KERRVILLE LANDFILL TX, LP LEWISVILLE LANDFILL TX, LP MARS ROAD TX, LP MCCARTY ROAD LANDFILL TX, LP MESQUITE LANDFILL TX, LP MEXIA LANDFILL TX, LP PANAMA ROAD LANDFILL, TX, L.P. PINE HILL FARMS LANDFILL TX, LP PLEASANT OAKS LANDFILL TX, LP RIO GRANDE VALLEY LANDFILL TX, LP ROYAL OAKS LANDFILL TX, LP SOUTH CENTRAL TEXAS LAND CO. TX, LP SOUTHWEST LANDFILL TX, LP TESSMAN ROAD LANDFILL TX, LP TURKEY CREEK LANDFILL TX, LP VICTORIA LANDFILL TX, LP WHISPERING PINES LANDFILL TX, LP BENTON COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY CLINTON COUNTY LANDFILL PARTNERSHIP COUNTY LINE LANDFILL PARTNERSHIP ILLIANA DISPOSAL PARTNERSHIP JASPER COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY PARTNERSHIP KEY WASTE INDIANA PARTNERSHIP LAKE COUNTY C & D DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIP NEWTON COUNTY LANDFILL PARTNERSHIP
 
SPRINGFIELD ENVIRONMENTAL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP TIPPECANOE COUNTY WASTE SERVICES PARTNERSHIP WARRICK COUNTY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY BENSON VALLEY LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP BLUE RIDGE LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP GREEN VALLEY LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP MOREHEAD LANDFILL GENERAL PARTNERSHIP REPUBLIC WASTE SERVICES OF TEXAS, LTD. RWS TRANSPORT, L.P. BFI ENERGY SYSTEMS OF SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP OCEANSIDE WASTE & RECYCLING SERVICES RABANCO COMPANIES REPUBLIC SERVICES FINANCIAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP REPUBLIC SERVICES OF FLORIDA, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP REPUBLIC SERVICES OF GEORGIA, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP REPUBLIC SERVICES OF INDIANA, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP REPUBLIC SERVICES OF WISCONSIN, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP DINVERNO, INC.
 
Any registration statement required to be filed in the future pursuant to that certain Letter Agreement, dated as of December 2, 2008, by and among the Company, Blackstone Capital Partners III Merchant Banking Fund L.P., Blackstone Offshore Capital Partners III L.P. and Blackstone Family Investment Partnership III L.P.


