FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20090227060129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 26, 2009, Republic Services, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008. The press release is incorporated herein by reference and furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS
Media Inquiries: Will Flower (480) 718-6565 Investor Inquiries: Ed Lang (480) 627-7128   Tod Holmes (480) 627-2877
Republic Contacts:
...Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) today reported a net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2008, of $131.7 million, or $.55 per diluted share, compared to net income of $82.1 million, or $.44 per diluted share, for the same period in 2007. Our 2008 financial results include Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) from the effective date of the merger which was December 5, 2008. Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2008 was $1,244.4 million compared to $796.0 million for the same period in 2007.
Phoenix, AZ, Feb. 26, 2009
Operating loss for the three months ended December 31, 2008 was $111.6 million compared to operating income of $139.9 million for the same period last year. During the three months ended December 31, 2008, we recorded charges totaling $315.5 million for remediation and related costs, asset impairments, restructuring, landfill and intangible asset amortization expense, bad debt expense, legal settlement reserves and the synergy incentive plan.
For the year ended December 31, 2008, net income was $73.8 million, or $.37 per diluted share, compared to $290.2 million, or $1.51 per diluted share, for 2007. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $3,685.1 million compared to $3,176.2 million during 2007.
Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $283.2 million compared to $536.0 million for 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded charges totaling $383.5 million for remediation and related costs, asset impairments, restructuring, landfill and intangible asset amortization expense, bad debt expense, legal settlement reserves and the synergy incentive plan.
 
"I am very pleased with our progress to date concerning the integration of Republic and Allied following the merger that took place on December 5, 2008," said James E. O'Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Republic Services. "We have already completed initiatives that provide an annual benefit of more than $50.0 million in synergies. I remain confident that we will achieve the estimated $150.0 million in annual run-rate savings by the end of 2010."
We also announced that our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $.19 per share for stockholders of record on April 1, 2009. The dividend will be paid on April 15, 2009.
"Despite a weaker economy, we expect 2009 free cash flow, excluding merger-related payments, to be approximately $650.0 million, which compares favorably to 2008," said Donald W. Slager, President and Chief Operating Officer. "Our field organization is adjusting the business for changing economic conditions while remaining focused on the basic aspects of our business including safety, customer service, pricing, and achieving strong and predictable free cash flow."
Our objectives for 2009 remain consistent with previous years and once again focus on enhancing shareholder value through the generation and efficient use of free cash flow. We remain committed to implementing a broad-based pricing initiative across all lines of business to recover increasing costs and provide an adequate return on invested capital. We anticipate using free cash flow to pay regular quarterly dividends and reduce debt. Additionally, we expect to use proceeds from sales of asset divestitures to reduce debt.
Our guidance is based on current economic conditions and does not assume any improvement or deterioration in the overall economy in 2009 from that experienced at the end of 2008.
Specific guidance is as follows:
 
 
About Republic Services, Inc.
Republic Services, Inc. is a leading provider of services in the domestic, non-hazardous solid waste industry. We provide solid waste collection, transfer, disposal and recycling services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 400 collection companies in 40 states and Puerto Rico. We also own or operate 242 transfer stations, 213 solid waste landfills and 78 recycling facilities. Republic serves millions of residential customers under contracts with more than 3,000 municipalities for waste collection and residential services. For more information, visit the Republic Services web site at
www.republicservices.com.
 
 
 
The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Form 10-K as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007. It should also be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Form 10-Q as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2008.
REVENUE
The following table reflects our total revenue by revenue source for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:
The following table reflects our revenue growth for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:
The increase in our revenue and our revenue growth for the three months ended December 31, 2008 is primarily due to our acquisition of Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) on December 5, 2008.
 
SUMMARY OF CHARGES
We incurred various charges and costs during the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 that are reported within our unaudited consolidated statements of income and are reflected in the following table:
 
 
MERGER WITH ALLIED
We completed our acquisition of Allied effective December 5, 2008. We issued approximately 195.8 million shares of common stock to Allied stockholders, representing 52% of the outstanding common stock of the combined company on a diluted basis. The total purchase price paid for Allied, including the value of common stock issued, our acquisition of Allied's debt and other costs, totaled approximately $11.5 billion. We have allocated the preliminary purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date and recorded the resulting goodwill, which represents the excess of purchase price over the net assets acquired, of $9.0 billion. Until we have completed our valuation process for the assets and liabilities acquired, there may be adjustments, which we believe will be relatively small compared to our preliminary estimates of the fair values and the resulting purchase price allocation.
Our allocation of purchase price included allocating values to intangible assets other than goodwill. The purchase price assigned to each of these intangible assets and the life over which these assets will be amortized is as follows:
Amortization expense for 2009 arising from the $541.0 million of other intangible assets recorded is expected to be approximately $65.0 million.
The debt we acquired from Allied was recorded at fair value. At the date of the merger, the fair value of Allied's variable rate debt approximated its book value. However, because of the tightening of the credit markets, the fair value of Allied's fixed rate debt was significantly below its book value, which resulted in the recognition of a $624.3 million discount. Non-cash interest expense for 2009 arising from amortizing the discount of Allied's debt is expected to be approximately $90.7 million. This discount will generally be amortized into interest expense over the terms of the related debt instruments. The estimated fair value and discount for each fixed rate debt instrument acquired from Allied is as follows:
 
In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), various liabilities acquired from Allied were recorded at their fair values using present value techniques to account for changes in the related liabilities due to the passage of time. The differences between the estimated fair values and the undiscounted values for these liabilities will be amortized into either accretion expense or interest expense, depending on the type of liability recorded, over the expected term of the applicable liability. The estimated fair values, undiscounted values and estimated lives for these liabilities are as follows:
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES
Operating Income before Depreciation, Amortization, Depletion and Accretion
Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is calculated as follows:
We believe that the presentation of operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion is useful to investors because it provides important information concerning our operating performance exclusive of certain non-cash costs. Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy which includes reinvesting in existing capital assets to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment grade rating and minimizing debt, paying cash dividends, and maintaining and improving our market position through business optimization. This measure has limitations. Although depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion are considered operating costs in accordance with GAAP, they represent the allocation of non-cash costs generally associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior years.
For a discussion of significant items impacting our operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion for the periods presented above, see Summary of Charges.
 
Diluted Earnings per Share
Following is a summary of adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes charges for remediation and related costs, asset impairments, restructuring, landfill and intangible asset amortization expense, bad debt expense, legal settlement reserves, the synergy incentive plan, non-cash interest expense and the tax impact of non-deductible items, provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain non-operational items and strategic and other decisions made for the long-term benefit of the company. We use this measure, and believe investors will find it helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a
 
disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. Comparable costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods.
Cash Flow
We define free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Our free cash flow for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is calculated as follows (in millions):
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and the free cash flow presented above represent amounts paid during the period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows (in millions):
The adjustments noted above do not affect either our net change in cash and cash equivalents as reflected in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows or our free cash flow.
A reconciliation of our projected cash provided by operating activities to the 2009 free cash flow outlook is as follows (in millions):
Free cash flow for 2009 includes approximately $100.0 million of merger-related payments. Excluding these payments, free cash flow for 2009 would be $650.0.
We believe that the presentation of free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales of property and equipment. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy as previously discussed and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of free cash flow has material limitations. Free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
 
Capital expenditures include $.6 million and $2.6 million of capitalized interest for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008, and $.9 million and $3.0 million of capitalized interest for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2007.
As of December 31, 2008, accounts receivable was $945.5 million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $65.7 million, resulting in days sales outstanding of approximately 40 (or 25 net of deferred revenue).
SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM AND DEBT REPAYMENT
During 2008, we repurchased a total of 4.6 million shares of our common stock for $138.4 million. As of December 31, 2008, we were authorized to repurchase up to an additional $248.0 million of common stock under our existing stock repurchase program. We suspended the share repurchase program due to the merger with Allied. During 2009, we intend to use free cash flow to repay debt and to continue paying dividends.
CASH DIVIDENDS
In October 2008, we paid a cash dividend of $34.7 million to stockholders of record as of October 1, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded a dividend payable of $72.0 million to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 2, 2009, which has been paid. In February 2009, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $.19 per share payable to stockholders of record as of April 1, 2009, which will be paid on April 15, 2009.
Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements and information included herein constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Federal Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements with respect to the expected results of the integration of our merger with Allied and our anticipated 2009 financial results. Words such as "will", "expect," "anticipate" and similar words and phrases are used in this press release to identify the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements, although based on assumptions that we consider reasonable, are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results, events or conditions to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the expectations will prove to be correct. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are:
 


