FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20090729172603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 29, 2009, Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS
Media Inquiries: Will Flower (480) 718-6565 Investor Inquiries: Ed Lang (480) 627-7128
Republic Contacts:
PHOENIX, AZ, July 29, 2009...Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) today reported net income of $225.9 million, or $.59 per diluted share, for the three months ended June 30, 2009, versus $40.7 million, or $.22 per diluted share, for the comparable period last year. Republic's financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 include Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) which merged with Republic on December 5, 2008.
Republic's income before income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2009 includes $150.1 million ($.24 per diluted share) of gain from the disposition of assets related to our merger with Allied, $12.3 million ($.02 per diluted share) of restructuring charges due to the merger and $10.1 million ($.02 per diluted share) of incremental costs to achieve projected synergies. Excluding these items, net income for the three months ended June 30, 2009 would have been $146.9 million or $.39 per diluted share.
 
During the three months ended June 30, 2008, our income before income taxes includes a $34.0 million charge ($.12 per diluted share) related to environmental conditions at our Countywide Recycling and Disposal Facility in Ohio, as well as a $35.0 million charge ($.12 per diluted share) related to estimated costs to comply with a consent decree and settlement agreement at the Sunrise Landfill in Nevada. Excluding these charges, net income for the three months ended June 30, 2008 would have been $84.5 million or $.46 per diluted share.
Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion for the three months ended June 30, 2009 was $761.2 million compared to $166.3 million for the comparable period in 2008. Excluding the gain on disposition of assets, restructuring charges and costs to achieve synergies recorded in 2009 and the remediation charges for Countywide and Sunrise incurred during 2008, operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion for the three months ended June 30, 2009 was $633.5 million, or 30.7% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $234.3 million, or 28.3% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable 2008 period.
Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2009 increased to $2,066.1 million compared to $827.5 million for the same period in 2008. Core price for the three months ended June 30, 2009 (assuming the merger with Allied had occurred on January 1, 2008) increased 3.4%. Offsetting the core price growth of 3.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2009 were decreases of 10.3% in core volume, 2.5% of commodity pricing and 3.1% in fuel charges.
For the six months ended June 30, 2009, net income was $338.9 million, or $.89 per diluted share, compared to $116.8 million, or $.63 per diluted share, for the comparable period last year. Republic's income before income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2009, includes $145.2 million ($.24 per diluted share) of gain from the disposition of assets related to our merger with Allied, $43.6 million ($.07 per diluted share) of restructuring charges due to the merger and $22.9 million ($.04 per diluted share) of incremental costs to achieve projected synergies. Excluding these items, net income for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was $289.4 million or $.76 per diluted share.
 
During the six months ended June 30, 2008, our income before income taxes includes a $34.0 million charge ($.12 per diluted share) related to environmental conditions at our Countywide Recycling and Disposal Facility in Ohio as well as a $35.0 million charge ($.12 per diluted share) related to estimated costs to comply with a consent decree and settlement agreement related to the Sunrise Landfill in Nevada. Excluding these charges, net income for the six months ended June 30, 2008 was $160.6 million or $.87 per diluted share.
Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was $1,359.3 million compared to $386.3 million for the comparable period in 2008. Excluding the gain on disposition of assets, restructuring charges and costs to achieve synergies recorded in 2009 and the remediation charges for Countywide and Sunrise incurred during 2008, operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was $1,280.6 million, or 31.0% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $454.3 million, or 28.3% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable 2008 period.
Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2009 increased to $4,126.6 million compared to $1,606.7 million for the same period in 2008. Core price for the six months ended June 30, 2009 (assuming the merger with Allied had occurred on January 1, 2008) increased 3.4%. Offsetting the core price growth of 3.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2009 were decreases of 9.1% in core volume, 2.7% of commodity pricing and 2.2% in fuel charges.
"We continue to maintain our pricing discipline along with our focus on integration, synergy savings and operating cost controls," said James E. O'Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Republic Services, Inc. "As a result of these efforts, we are raising our financial guidance for full year 2009. Our pricing strategy is the key to improving margins and earning an adequate return on invested capital."
 
Republic Services is increasing its 2009 guidance for earnings per share, free cash flow and merger synergies to reflect our first six month performance and current business conditions. Capital spending is also being changed to reflect lower volumes.
 
"Our field organization and regional teams have performed exceptionally well as we continue to realize success from the merger of Allied Waste Industries and Republic Services," said Donald W. Slager, President and Chief Operating Officer of Republic Services, Inc. "Additionally, we completed almost all of the required divestitures. By the end of the second quarter, we received $424 million of pre-tax proceeds. We expect that by the end of August 2009, all of our required divestitures will be complete with proceeds in excess of $475 million. All of the proceeds from the sale of these assets are being used to pay down debt."
Separately, Republic announced that its Board of Directors has approved a regular quarterly dividend of $.19 per share to be paid on October 15, 2009 to shareholders of record on October 1, 2009.
Republic Services, Inc. is a leading provider of solid waste collection, transfer and disposal services in the United States. Our operating units are focused on providing solid waste services for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers.
 
 
 
 
 
The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Form 10-K as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our current report on Form 8-K, filed June 5, 2009.
REVENUE
The following table reflects our total revenue by line of business for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
The following table summarizes our revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 assuming the merger of Allied Waste occurred on January 1, 2008.
Revenue associated with divested assets is removed in the quarter in which the assets were sold and the comparable quarter in the prior year. Adjusted revenue is used to calculate internal growth for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009. Intercompany revenue relates to prior year transactions between Republic and Allied that would have been eliminated if the companies had merged on January 1, 2008.
 
The following table reflects our core revenue changes for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008. For comparative purposes, we have presented the components of our revenue changes for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 assuming the merger with Allied occurred on January 1, 2008. Our presentation also eliminates revenue associated with divested assets in the quarter the assets were sold and the comparable quarter in the prior year.
 
We believe that the presentation of revenue and changes in revenue above provides useful information to investors because it allows investors to understand increases or decreases in our revenue that are driven by changes in the operations of the predecessor Republic or Allied, and not merely by the addition of Allied's revenues for periods after the merger. This information has been prepared for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be indicative of the revenue that would have been realized had the acquisition been consummated at the beginning of the periods presented or the future results of the combined operations.
 
MERGER WITH ALLIED
We completed our acquisition of Allied effective December 5, 2008. In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price paid has been allocated to assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the effective date of the merger, with the excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired being recorded as goodwill. We are in the process of valuing all of the assets and liabilities acquired in the merger, and, until we have completed our valuation process, there may be adjustments to our estimates of fair values and the resulting preliminary purchase price allocation.
As a condition of our acquisition of Allied, we reached a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice requiring us to divest of certain operating assets and liabilities. As of June 30, 2009, we had completed approximately 90% of these mandatory divestitures. These divestitures generated approximately $424 million of pre-tax proceeds all of which were used to re-pay debt.
The following table summarizes our revenue, costs and expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 assuming the merger with Allied occurred on January 1, 2008.
We believe that the presentation of revenue and expenses above provides useful information to investors because it allows investors to understand increases or decreases in our revenue and expenses that are driven by changes in the operations of the predecessor Republic or Allied, and not merely by the addition of Allied's revenues and expenses for periods after the merger. This information has been prepared for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be indicative of the results of operations that would have actually occurred had the acquisition been consummated at the beginning of the periods presented or the future results of the combined operations.
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES
Operating Income before Depreciation, Amortization, Depletion and Accretion
Operating income before depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion (OIDADA), which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is calculated as follows:
We believe that the presentation of OIDADA is useful to investors because it provides important information concerning our operating performance exclusive of certain non-cash costs. OIDADA demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy which includes reinvesting in existing capital assets to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment grade rating and minimizing debt, paying cash dividends, and maintaining and improving our market position through business optimization. This measure has limitations. Although depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion are considered operating costs in accordance with GAAP, they represent the allocation of non-cash costs generally associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior years. Our definition of OIDADA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share were $.59 and $.22 for the three months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $.89 and $.63 for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, we recorded a number of gains, charges and other expenses that impacted our OIDADA, pre-tax income, net income and diluted earnings per share. These items primarily consist of the following (in millions, except per share data):
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted OIDADA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes the gain on disposition of assets, restructuring charges, costs to achieve synergies and remediation charges, which are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, provide an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain non-operational items. We use these measures, and believe investors will find them helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. Comparable charges and costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted OIDADA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Cash Flow
We define free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Our free cash flow for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is calculated as follows (in millions):
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and the free cash flow presented above represent amounts paid during the period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows (in millions):
The adjustments noted above do not affect either our net change in cash and cash equivalents as reflected in our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows or our free cash flow.
 
We believe that the presentation of free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales of property and equipment. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy as previously discussed and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of free cash flow has material limitations. Free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed such as, debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
As of June 30, 2009, accounts receivable was $913.5 million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $56.2 million, resulting in days sales outstanding of approximately 40 (or 25 net of deferred revenue).
CASH DIVIDENDS
In April 2009, we paid a cash dividend of $72.0 million to stockholders of record as of April 1, 2009. As of June 30, 2009, we recorded a dividend payable of $72.1 million to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 1, 2009, which has been paid. In July 2009, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $.19 per share payable to stockholders of record as of October 1, 2009, which will be paid on October 15, 2009.
UPDATED FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share
The following is a summary of anticipated adjusted diluted earnings per share for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 excluding gain on disposition of assets.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes gains on disposition of assets and charges related to the integration of our businesses, provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain merger related gains and costs. We use this measure, and believe investors will find it helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations when the integration process is complete. Comparable charges and costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow
We define adjusted free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities, less purchases of property and equipment net of proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related costs. Our actual adjusted free cash flow for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and our anticipated adjusted free cash flow for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 are calculated as follows (in millions):
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment, net of proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related costs. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy. The presentation of adjusted free cash flow has material limitations. Adjusted free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed such as, debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of adjusted free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Certain statements and information included herein constitute forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "guidance," "expect," "will," "may," "anticipate," "could" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include statements about the expected benefits of the merger, our plans, strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the expectations will prove to be correct. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Refer to "Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. Additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


