FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20100211162121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 11, 2010, Republic Services, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS
Republic Contacts:
Media Inquiries: Will Flower (480) 718-6565
Investor Inquiries: Ed Lang (480) 627-7128
...Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) today reported net income of $35.6 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, including merger-related costs and other charges as further described in this release, for the three months ended December 31, 2009, versus a loss of $(131.7) million, or $(0.55) per diluted share, for the comparable period last year. Results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 include Allied Waste Industries, Inc. from December 5, 2008, the date on which Allied merged with Republic.
Phoenix, AZ, February 11, 2010
Republic's net income for the three months ended December 31, 2009 includes a loss on extinguishment of debt, restructuring charges, costs to achieve synergies, loss on disposition of assets and impairments, net, and remediation charges. Republic's net income for the three months ended December 31, 2008 includes restructuring charges, costs to achieve synergies, loss on disposition of assets and impairments, net, remediation charges, and the tax effect of permanent items. A detail of these costs and charges is contained in the Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures section of this document. Excluding these items, net income for the
 
three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have been $126.0 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, and $58.1 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, respectively.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion (EBITDA) for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $561.6 million compared to $26.0 million for the comparable period in 2008. Excluding certain costs and charges recorded during 2009 and 2008 as previously described, adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended December 31, 2009 would have been $588.2 million, or 29.4% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $289.2 million, or 23.2% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable 2008 period.
Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 increased to $1,999.0 million compared to $1,244.4 million for the same period in 2008. This increase in revenue is attributable to our merger with Allied. Core price for the three months ended December 31, 2009 (assuming the merger with Allied had occurred on January 1, 2008) increased 2.5% and commodity pricing increased 0.7%. Offsetting this growth of 3.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2009 were decreases of 9.7% in core volume and 2.2% in fuel charges.
For the year ended December 31, 2009, net income was $495.0 million, or $1.30 per diluted share, versus $73.8 million, or $0.37 per diluted share, for the comparable period in 2008. Republic's net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 includes a loss on extinguishment of debt, restructuring charges, costs to achieve synergies, gains on disposition of assets and impairments, net, and remediation recoveries. Republic's net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 includes restructuring charges, costs to achieve synergies, loss on disposition of assets and impairments, net, remediation charges, and the tax effect of permanent items. Excluding these items, net income for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 would have been $564.6 million, or $1.48 per diluted share, and $305.2 million, or $1.54 per diluted share, respectively.
EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $2,548.3 million compared to $661.2 million for the comparable period in 2008. Excluding certain costs and charges recorded during 2009 and 2008 as previously described, adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2009 would have been $2,509.5 million, or 30.6% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $992.4 million, or 26.9% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable period in 2008.
Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased to $8,199.1 million compared to $3,685.1 million for the same period in 2008. This increase in revenue is attributable to our merger with Allied. Core price for the year ended December 31, 2009 (assuming the merger with Allied had occurred on January 1, 2008) increased 3.0%. Offsetting the core price growth of 3.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009 were decreases of 9.5% in core volume, 1.7% of commodity pricing and 2.5% in fuel charges.
 
"We are pleased to report that we have exceeded our original 2009 guidance for earnings, free cash flow and margins," said James E. O'Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Republic Services, Inc. "We achieved annual run rate synergy savings of $150 million, well ahead of our plan. During 2009, we repaid $740 million of our debt. We also took advantage of the favorable interest rate environment by issuing $1.25 billion of new debt and using the proceeds to repay existing debt. Our strong operational and financial performance during 2009 has left us well positioned for future success, as evidenced by our double digit 2010 earnings growth guidance."
Quarterly Dividend Declared
Republic Services also announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.19 per share for shareholders of record on April 1, 2010. The dividend will be paid on April 15, 2010.
Fiscal Year 2010 Outlook
Our objectives for 2010 remain consistent with previous years and focus on enhancing shareholder value by increasing returns on invested capital and through the efficient use of free cash flow. We remain committed to continuing our broad-based pricing program across all lines of business to recover increasing costs and to expand our operating margins.
Our guidance is based on current economic conditions and does not assume any improvement or deterioration in the overall economy in 2010.
Specific guidance is as follows:
 
Commenting on the Company's performance, Donald W. Slager, President and Chief Operating Officer, said "Our field organization remains focused on revenue and cost control initiatives while providing superior service to our customers and a safe work environment for our employees. This focus, coupled with our integration efforts, provides us with the platform we need to achieve strong earnings growth in 2010."
Republic Services, Inc. provides recycling and solid waste collection, transfer and disposal services in the United States and Puerto Rico. The Company's various operating units including collection companies, transfer stations, recycling centers and landfills are focused on providing reliable environmental services and solutions for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. For more information, visit the Republic Services web site at
www.republicservices.com
 
 
 
 
The following information should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Form 10-K as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 when filed and our current report on Form 8-K filed June 5, 2009. It should also be read in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Form 10-Q as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. All amounts below are in millions, except per share data.
REVENUE
The following table reflects our total revenue by line of business for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:
The following table summarizes our adjusted revenue for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 which assumes our merger with Allied occurred on January 1, 2008:
Adjusted revenue is used to calculate internal growth for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Intercompany revenue relates to prior year transactions between Republic and Allied that would have been eliminated if the companies had merged on January 1, 2008.
The following table reflects changes in our core adjusted revenue for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. For comparative purposes, we have presented the components of our revenue changes for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 assuming our merger with Allied occurred on January 1, 2008. Our presentation also eliminates revenue associated with divested assets in the quarter the assets were sold and the comparable quarter in the prior year.
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted revenue and changes in adjusted revenue above provides useful information to investors because it allows investors to understand increases or decreases in our revenue that are driven by changes in the operations of the newly combined company, and not merely by the addition of Allied's revenues for periods after the merger. This information has been prepared for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be indicative of the revenue that would have been realized had the merger been consummated at the beginning of the periods presented or the future results of the combined operations.
MERGER WITH ALLIED
We completed our acquisition of Allied effective December 5, 2008. In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price paid was allocated to assets and liabilities acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of the effective date of the merger, with the excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired being recorded as goodwill. Future adjustments, if any, made to assets and liabilities acquired will be recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
The following table summarizes our revenue, costs and expenses for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 assuming the merger with Allied occurred on January 1, 2008:
We believe that the presentation of revenue and expenses above provides useful information to investors because it allows investors to understand increases or decreases in our revenue and expenses that are driven by changes in the operations of the newly combined company, and not merely by the addition of Allied's revenues and expenses for periods after the merger. This information has been prepared for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be indicative of the results of operations that would have actually occurred had the acquisition been consummated at the beginning of the periods presented or the future results of the combined operations.
 
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES
Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Accretion
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion (EBITDA), which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 is calculated as follows:
We believe that the presentation of EBITDA is useful to investors because it provides important information concerning our operating performance exclusive of certain non-cash costs. EBITDA demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy which includes reinvesting in existing capital assets to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment grade credit rating and minimizing debt, paying cash dividends, and maintaining and improving our market position through business optimization. This measure has limitations. Although depreciation, amortization, depletion and accretion are considered operating costs in accordance with GAAP, they represent the allocation of non-cash costs generally associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior years. Our definition of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Earnings
We reported diluted earnings per share were $0.09 and $(0.55) for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and $1.30 and $0.37 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded a number of gains, charges (recoveries) and other expenses that impacted our EBITDA, pre-tax income, net income attributable to Republic Services, Inc., (Net Income  Republic) and diluted earnings per share. These items primarily consist of the following:
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income attributable to Republic Services Inc., and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, provide an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain items. We use these measures, and believe investors will find them helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. Comparable charges and costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income attributable to Republic Services Inc., and adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Cash Flow
We define free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our free cash flow for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 is calculated as follows:
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows and the free cash flow presented above represent amounts paid during the period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows:
The adjustments noted above do not affect either our net change in cash and cash equivalents as reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
We define adjusted free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities, less property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus tax settlement related to BFI risk management companies, plus divesture related tax payments. Our adjusted free cash flow for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 is calculated as follows:
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus tax settlement related to BFI risk management companies, plus divesture related tax payments. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of adjusted free cash flow has material limitations. Adjusted free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of adjusted free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
As of December 31, 2009, accounts receivable was $865.1 million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $55.2 million, resulting in days sales outstanding of approximately 39 (or 24 net of deferred revenue).
CASH DIVIDENDS
In October 2009, we paid a cash dividend of $72.2 million to stockholders of record as of October 1, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we recorded a dividend payable of $72.4 million to stockholders of record at the close of business on January 4, 2010, which has been paid. In February 2010, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.19 per share payable to stockholders of record as of April 1, 2010, which will be paid on April 15, 2010.
2010 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share
The following is a summary of anticipated adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the actual adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2009 excluding loss on extinguishment of debt, restructuring charges and costs to achieve synergies, gain on the disposition of assets and impairments (net) and remediation recoveries:
We believe that the presentation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes loss on extinguishment of debt, restructuring charges and costs to achieve synergies, gains on the disposition of assets and impairments (net) and remediation recoveries provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain items. We use this measure, and believe investors will find it helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations when the integration process is complete. Comparable charges and costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow
We define adjusted free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating
 
activities, less property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus tax settlement related to BFI risk management companies, plus divestiture related tax payments. Our anticipated adjusted free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2010 and our actual adjusted free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2009 are calculated as follows:
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows represent amounts paid during the period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows:
We believe that the presentation of adjusted free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus tax settlement related to BFI risk management companies, plus divestiture related tax payments. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of adjusted free cash flow has material limitations. Adjusted free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of adjusted free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Certain statements and information included herein constitute forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "guidance," "expect," "will," "may," "anticipate," "could" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include statements about the expected benefits of the merger, our plans, strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that the expectations will prove to be correct. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Refer to "Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
 
ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 when filed, for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. Additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, nor to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


