FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20110728162021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 28, 2011, Republic Services, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Company's results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On July 28, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that its board of directors approved a 10.0% increase in the Company's regular quarterly dividend to $0.22 per share. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS
REPUBLIC CONTACTS
...Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) today reported net income of $46.5 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, for the three months ended June 30, 2011, versus $159.7 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, for the comparable period last year.
Phoenix, AZ, July 28, 2011
Republic's net income for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 includes a number of charges and other expenses that impacted its results. A detail of these charges and other expenses is contained in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document. Excluding these items, net income for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 would have been $184.9 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, and $166.4 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, respectively.
Excluding certain charges and other expenses recorded during 2011 and 2010 as described in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion (adjusted EBITDA) for the three months ended June 30, 2011 would have been $648.7 million, or 31.1% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $645.8 million, or 31.3% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable 2010 period.
 
Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased to $2,086.6 million compared to $2,066.4 million for the same period in 2010. Core price for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased 1.0%, fuel surcharges increased 1.1% and commodities pricing increased 1.3%. Offsetting this revenue growth of 3.4% from price were decreases of 1.0% from core volume and 1.4% due to the expiration of our contracts with San Mateo County and the City of Toronto.
For the six months ended June 30, 2011, net income was $204.7 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, versus $224.7 million, or $0.59 per diluted share, for the comparable period last year.
Republic's net income for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 includes a number of charges and other expenses that impacted its results. A detail of these charges and other expenses is contained in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document. Excluding these items, net income for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 would have been $344.5 million, or $0.90 per diluted share, and $324.0 million, or $0.84 per diluted share, respectively.
Excluding certain charges and other expenses recorded during 2011 and 2010 as described in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion (adjusted EBITDA) for the six months ended June 30, 2011 would have been $1,250.0 million, or 30.9% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $1,265.4 million, or 31.4% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable 2010 period.
Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2011 increased to $4,051.5 million compared to $4,024.1 million for the same period in 2010. Core price for the six months ended June 30, 2011 increased 1.0%, fuel surcharges increased 0.9% and commodities pricing increased 1.2%. Offsetting this revenue growth of 3.1% from price were decreases of 0.9% from core volume, 0.1% from divestitures and 1.4% due to the expiration of our contracts with San Mateo County and the City of Toronto.
Commenting on these results, Donald W. Slager, President and Chief Executive Officer of Republic Services, said, "The business continues to track to our expectations. The Company's performance is a direct result of continued focus on pricing, productivity improvements and customer service. This is the fifth quarter in a row we have seen improvement in our collection volumes. We are confident in reaffirming our guidance. We remain committed to a consistent cash utilization strategy that includes both dividend growth and share repurchase."
 
Republic Services is reaffirming its 2011 financial guidance for:
Republic also announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.22 per share for stockholders of record on October 3, 2011. The dividend will be paid on October 17, 2011.
Republic Services, Inc. provides recycling and solid waste collection, transfer and disposal services in the United States. The Company's various operating units, including collection companies, transfer stations, recycling centers and landfills, are focused on providing reliable environmental services and solutions for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. For more information, visit the Republic Services website at . The Company participates in investor presentations and conferences throughout the year. Interested parties can find a schedule of these conferences at by selecting "Calendar" under the Investor Relations tab. Live audio presentations from earnings calls and investor conferences are webcast on the Republic website.
www.republicservices.com
www.republicservices.com
 
 
 
 
You should read the following information in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. All amounts below are in millions and as a percentage of our revenue, except per share data.
REVENUE
The following table reflects our total revenue by line of business for the three and six months ended June 30:
The following table reflects changes in our core revenue for the three and six months ended June 30:
COST OF OPERATIONS
Cost of operations includes labor and related benefits, which consists of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes. It also includes transfer and disposal costs representing tipping fees paid to third party disposal facilities and transfer stations; maintenance and repairs relating to our vehicles, equipment and containers, including related labor and benefit costs; transportation and subcontractor costs, which include costs for independent haulers who transport our waste to disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with our national accounts in markets outside our standard operating areas; fuel, which includes the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel credits; disposal franchise fees and taxes consisting of landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; landfill operating costs, which includes landfill accretion, financial assurance, leachate disposal and other landfill maintenance costs; risk management, which includes casualty insurance premiums and claims; cost of goods sold, which includes material costs paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; and other, which includes expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent and gains or losses on sale of assets used in our operations.
 
The following table summarizes the major components of our cost of operations for the three and six months ended June 30:
The cost categories shown above may change from time to time and may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. As such, you should take care when comparing our cost of operations by cost component to that of other companies.
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, health and welfare benefits and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems, and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, marketing, investor and community relations, directors' and officers' insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges, but exclude any such amounts recorded as restructuring charges.
The following table provides the components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the three and six months ended June 30:
The cost categories shown above may change from time to time and may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. As such, you should take care when comparing our selling, general and administrative expenses by cost component to that of other companies.
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES
Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Accretion
The following table calculates earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion (EBITDA), which is not a measure determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), for the three and six months ended June 30:
 
We believe that the presentation of EBITDA is useful to investors because it provides important information concerning our operating performance exclusive of certain non-cash and other costs. EBITDA demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy, which includes reinvesting in existing capital assets to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment grade credit rating and minimizing debt, paying cash dividends, repurchasing our common stock, and maintaining and improving our market position through business optimization. This measure has limitations. Although depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion are considered operating costs in accordance with GAAP, they represent the allocation of non-cash costs generally associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior years. Our definition of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share were $0.12 and $0.54 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 versus $0.42 and $0.59 for the comparable 2010 periods. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, we recorded a number of charges, other expenses and net (gain) loss on disposition of assets that impacted our EBITDA, pre-tax income, net income attributable to Republic Services, Inc. (Net Income  Republic) and diluted earnings per share. These items primarily consist of the following:
We believe that the presentation of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income attributable to Republic Services Inc., and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, provide an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain items. We use these measures, and believe investors will find them helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. Comparable charges and costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income attributable to Republic Services Inc., and adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
 
Cash Flow
We define free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The following table calculates our free cash flow for the three and six months ended June 30:
We define adjusted free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities, less property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus the tax settlement related to BFI risk management companies. The following table calculates our adjusted free cash flow for the six months ended June 30:
We believe that the presentation of adjusted free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus the settlement related to BFI risk management companies. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of adjusted free cash flow has material limitations. Adjusted free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or to which we have committed such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of adjusted free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows and the free cash flow presented above represent amounts paid during the period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows for the three and six months ended June 30:
The adjustments noted above do not affect our net change in cash and cash equivalents as reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
As of June 30, 2011 and 2010, accounts receivable were $872.3 million and $898.4 million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $47.1 million and $52.5 million, resulting in days sales outstanding of approximately 38 (or 25 net of deferred revenue) and 40 (or 25 net of deferred revenue), respectively.
 
CASH DIVIDENDS
In April 2011, we paid a cash dividend of $75.8 million to stockholders of record as of April 1, 2011. As of June 30, 2011, we recorded a dividend payable of $75.3 million to stockholders of record at the close of business on July 1, 2011, which was paid on July 15, 2011. In July 2011, our board of directors approved a 10.0% increase in the regular quarterly dividend. The quarterly dividend of $0.22 per share will be paid on October 17, 2011 to stockholders of record on October 3, 2011.
STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
In November 2010, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to $400.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. As of June 30, 2011, we had used $303.2 million under the program to repurchase 10.1 million shares at an average cost per share of $30.08. We expect to use the remaining funds in this program to repurchase shares during 2011.
2011 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
e
Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Shar
The following is a summary of anticipated adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2011, which excludes loss on extinguishment of debt and loss on the disposition of assets and impairments, net:
We believe that the presentation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes loss on extinguishment of debt and loss on the disposition of assets and impairments, net provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain items. We use this measure, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, and believe investors will find it helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. Comparable charges and costs have been incurred in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow
We define adjusted free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities, less property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus tax settlement payments related to BFI risk management companies, plus divestiture related tax payments. Our anticipated adjusted free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011 is calculated as follows:
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows represent amounts paid during the
 
period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows:
We believe that the presentation of adjusted free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after expenditures for property and equipment received, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment, plus merger related expenditures, net of tax, plus tax settlement payments related to BFI risk management companies, plus divestiture related tax payments. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of adjusted free cash flow has material limitations. Adjusted free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of adjusted free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
This document contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for "forward-looking statements" provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as "guidance," "expect," "will," "may," "anticipate," "plan," "estimate," "project," "intend," "should," "can," "likely," "could," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Refer to "Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. Additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, or to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

EXHIBIT 99.2
NEWS
 Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved a 10.0% increase in the Company's regular quarterly dividend. The quarterly dividend of $0.22 per share will be paid on October 17, 2011 to stockholders of record on October 3, 2011.
Phoenix, AZ, July 28, 2011
Donald W. Slager, President and Chief Executive Officer of Republic Services, said, "Republic Services has an established track record of increasing cash returns to stockholders. Our board of directors has authorized a 10.0% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.22 per share. Our predictable and stable free cash flow performance allows the Company to increase cash returns while maintaining a strong capital structure and investment grade ratings."
Republic Services, Inc. provides recycling and solid waste collection, transfer and disposal services in the United States. The Company's various operating units, including collection companies, transfer stations, recycling centers and landfills, are focused on providing reliable environmental services and solutions for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. For more information, visit the Republic Services website at . The Company participates in investor presentations and conferences throughout the year. Interested parties can find a schedule of these conferences at by selecting "Calendar" under the Investor Relations tab. Live audio presentations from earnings calls and investor conferences are webcast on the Republic website.
www.republicservices.com
www.republicservices.com


