FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20120521142206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
On May 21, 2012, Republic Services, Inc. ("Republic") completed an underwritten public offering of $850,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.55% notes due June 1, 2022 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012, between Republic and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012. The Notes are unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of Republic. Republic expects to use $775.8 million of the net proceeds to finance the redemption of all $750 million of the 6 7/8% Senior Notes due 2017 of Republic's wholly-owned subsidiary, Alllied Waste North America, Inc., and the remainder for general corporate purposes.
In connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, Republic entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of May 14, 2012, with Deutsche Bank Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as representatives of the several underwriters named therein, which is filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto.
The Notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Act") pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-166469) (the "Registration Statement") previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Republic under the Act.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Republic hereby files the following exhibits to, and incorporates such exhibits by reference in, the Registration Statement as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated May 14, 2012 which was filed on May 15, 2012:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 21, 2012
 

Exhibit 1.1
REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.
UNDERWRITING AGREEMENT
May 14, 2012
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
Named in Schedule A hereto
c/o Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
60 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
c/o Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28288
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $850,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.55% Notes due 2022 (the ""). Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC ("") have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
Introductory.
Company
Underwriters
Securities
Wells Fargo
Representatives
The Securities will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the ""), to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2(b) below), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Securities will be established pursuant to a first supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture to be entered between the Company and the Trustee and dated as of the Closing Date (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Securities will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (the ""), between the Company and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), a registration statement on Form S-3
Commission
Securities Act
(File No. 333-166469), including a base prospectus, relating to debt securities that may be offered from time to time by the Company. Such registration statement, as amended as of the date hereof (including by the automatically effective post-effective amendment dated April 27, 2012), including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act to be part of the registration statement (""), is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and as used herein, the term "Preliminary Prospectus" means the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated May 14, 2012, together with the base prospectus included therein dated April 27, 2012, and the term "Prospectus" means the prospectus in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Securities, which is the final prospectus supplement, dated May 14, 2012, together with the base prospectus included therein dated April 27, 2012. If the Company has filed an abbreviated registration statement pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act (the ""), then any reference herein to the term "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include such Rule 462 Registration Statement. Any reference in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, as of the effective date of the Registration Statement or the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be, and any reference to "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after such date under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "") that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Rule 430 Information
Rule 462 Registration Statement
Exchange Act
At or prior to 3:50 p.m. New York City time on the date hereof (the ""), the Company prepared the following information (collectively, the ""): (i) the Preliminary Prospectus and (ii) each "free-writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) listed on Exhibit C hereto as constituting part of the Time of Sale Information.
Time of Sale
Time of Sale Information
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
S 1.
ECTION
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Time of Sale and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
a) . The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof. No notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company. No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued
Registration Statement and Prospectus
 
by the Commission and to the knowledge of the Company no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or related to the offering has been initiated or threatened by the Commission. As of the applicable effective date of the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, the Registration Statement complied and will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading. As of the date of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and as of the Closing Date, the Prospectus will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to (i) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act or (ii) any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
Trust Indenture Act
b) . The Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in such Time of Sale Information.
Time of Sale Information
c) . The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any "written communication" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i) (ii) and (iii) below) an "") other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus, (iv) each "free-writing prospectus" listed on Exhibit C hereto as constituting part of the Time of Sale Information and (v) any electronic road show or other written communication, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Representatives. Each such Issuer Free Writing
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
Prospectus complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, has been or will be (within the time period specified in Rule 433) filed in accordance with the Securities Act (to the extent required thereby) and, when taken together with the Preliminary Prospectus accompanying, or delivered prior to delivery of, or filed prior to the first use of, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
d) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Time of Sale Information (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
e) . The Company is not an ineligible issuer and is a well-known seasoned issuer, in each case as defined under the Securities Act, in each case at the times specified in the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Status under the Securities Act
f) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement
g) . Each of the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized and, on the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by, and will constitute a valid and binding agreement of, the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles. The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. The DTC Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by, and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of, the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
The Indenture and the DTC Agreement
h) . The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company will be in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Securities
 
i) . The Securities and the Indenture conform or will conform in all material respects to the respective descriptions thereof contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Description of the Securities and the Indenture
j) . The statements in each of the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Notes" and "Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters or documents referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements
k) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Time of Sale Information, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Time of Sale Information: (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any loss or interference with their respective businesses from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, which loss or interference is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity; and (ii) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the business, properties, results of operations or prospects, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
l) . The Company's independent registered public accounting firm, which has expressed its opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, is an independent public accountant with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and is an independent registered public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants
m) . The financial statements together with the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("") as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. The summary historical consolidated financial data included in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus. There are no financial statements that are required to be included in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information or the Prospectus that are not included or incorporated by reference as required. The interactive data in eXtensible
Preparation of the Financial Statements
GAAP
 
Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus present fairly the information called for in all material respects and have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
n) . Each of the Company and its significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(10) of Regulation S-X, the "") has been duly incorporated or formed and is validly existing as a corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other legal entity, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation, and each has corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and, in the case of the Company, to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. Each of the Company and each Significant Subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation, limited liability company, partnership or other legal entity to transact business and is in good standing or equivalent status in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and, except in the case of subsidiaries set forth on Exhibit D hereto, are owned by the Company, directly or through its subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. The Company does not have any subsidiary not listed on Exhibit 21.1 to the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K which is required to be so listed.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries
Significant Subsidiaries
o) . The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q incorporated by reference in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans or upon exercise of outstanding options, in each case, described in the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, as the case may be).
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
p) . None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is (i) in violation of or in default under (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") its articles of incorporation, charter, by-laws, limited liability company agreement or limited partnership agreement, as applicable, (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which it or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of it or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties, as applicable, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required
Default
Existing Instrument
 
(iii) only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and the Indenture and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action by the Company and will not result in any Default under the articles of incorporation, charter, bylaws, limited liability company or limited partnership agreement of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such conflicts, Defaults, Debt Repayment Triggering Events or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement or the issuance and sale of the Securities or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, and except for such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders, registrations or filings as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws or foreign securities laws. As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
q) . Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) which has as the subject thereof any officer or director of, or property owned or leased by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) relating to environmental or discrimination matters related to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, where any such action, suit or proceeding, if determined adversely, would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Material Actions or Proceedings
r) . No material dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, and the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that in either case would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Labor Matters
 
s) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, and none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
All Necessary Permits, etc
t) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, the Company and each of its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected as owned in the financial statements referred to in Section 1(m) above (or elsewhere in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus), in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects, except such as do not materially and adversely affect the value of such property and do not materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made of such property by the Company or such subsidiary. The real property, improvements, equipment and personal property held under lease by the Company and any of its subsidiaries are held under valid and enforceable leases, with such exceptions as are not material and do not materially interfere with the use made or proposed to be made of such real property, improvements, equipment or personal property by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, as the case may be.
Title to Properties
u) . The Company and its subsidiaries have filed all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise tax returns in a timely manner and have paid all taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, except where a default to make such filings or payments would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. The Company and its subsidiaries have made appropriate provisions in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(m) above in respect of all federal, state, local and foreign income and franchise taxes for all current or prior periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
Tax Law Compliance
v) . The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Not an Investment Company
w) . The Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by recognized, financially sound and reputable institutions with policies in such amounts and with such deductibles and covering such risks as are generally deemed adequate and customary for their businesses. All policies of insurance insuring the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect.
Insurance
 
x) . None of Company or any of its subsidiaries has taken or will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
y) . There are no business relationships or related-party transactions involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any other person required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
Related Party Transactions
z) . No person has the right to require the Company or any of its subsidiaries to register any securities for sale under the Securities Act by reason of the filing of the Registration Statement with the Commission or the issuance and sale of the Securities.
No Registration Rights
aa) . None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company and its subsidiaries and, to the best of the Company's knowledge, their affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have, to the extent necessary, instituted and maintained policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
"" means the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
FCPA
bb) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
Money Laundering Laws
cc) None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries nor, to the best knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""). The Company
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
OFAC
 
will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
dd) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus: (i) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation, order, permit or other requirement relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including without limitation, laws and regulations relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum and petroleum products (collectively, ""), or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Materials of Environment Concern (collectively, ""), which violation includes, but is not limited to, noncompliance with any permits or other governmental authorizations required for the operation of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries under applicable Environmental Laws, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions thereof, nor has the Company or any of its subsidiaries received any written communication that alleges that the Company or any of its subsidiaries is in violation of any Environmental Law, except in each case as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in Material Adverse Change; (ii) there is no claim, action or cause of action filed with a court or governmental authority, no investigation with respect to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries has received written notice, and no written notice by any person or entity to the Company or any of its subsidiaries alleging potential liability for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, governmental responses costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injuries, attorneys' fees or penalties arising out of, based on or resulting from the presence, or release into the environment, of any Material of Environmental Concern at any location owned, leased or operated by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, now or in the past (collectively, ""), pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change; and (iii) to the best knowledge of the Company, there are no past, present or anticipated future actions, activities, circumstances, conditions, events or incidents, including, without limitation, the release, emission, discharge, presence or disposal of any Material of Environmental Concern, that reasonably would be expected to result in a violation of any Environmental Law, require expenditures to be incurred pursuant to Environmental Law, or form the basis of a potential Environmental Claim against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expect to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
Materials of Environmental Concern
Environmental Laws
Environmental Claims
ee) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply in any material respect with any applicable provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
ff) The Company and its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
Company's Accounting System.
gg) The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
hh) Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
ii) . The Company maintains an effective system of "disclosure controls and procedures" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act). The Company has carried out evaluations of the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
S 2. .
ECTION
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities
a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Securities upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.073% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from May 21, 2012, payable on the Closing Date. The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
The Securities.
b) Delivery of certificates for the Securities in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of counsel for the Representatives (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on May 21, 2012, or such other time and date as the Representatives and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
 
c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering, in the manner described in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, of their respective portions of the Securities as soon after the execution and delivery of this Agreement as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Offering of the Securities.
d) Payment for the Securities shall be made on the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Securities.
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, the Securities through the facilities of the Depository Trust Company to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters on the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Securities in global form shall be registered in the name of a nominee for the Depository Trust Company and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Securities.
S 3.
ECTION
Covenants of the Company.
The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
a) The Company will file the final Prospectus with the Commission within the time periods specified by Rule 424(b) and Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act, will file any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (including the Pricing Term Sheet in the form of Exhibit B hereto) to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act, and will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities. The Company will furnish copies of the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (to the extent not previously delivered) to the Underwriters in New York City prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on the second business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request. The Company will pay the registration fees for this offering within the time period required by Rule 456(b)(1)(i) under the Securities Act (without giving effect to the proviso therein) and in any event prior to the Closing Date.Before using, authorizing, approving, referring to or filing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and before filing any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus prior to the
Preparation of Final Prospectus; Underwriters' Review of Proposed Amendments and Supplements.
 
completion of the offering of the Securities, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters a copy of the proposed Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, amendment or supplement for review and will not use, authorize, approve, refer to or file any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives have reasonably and promptly objected; that nothing herein shall prohibit the Company from filing any document pursuant to the Exchange Act so long as the Underwriters have been (x) provided with notice of the Company's intention to make such filing as soon as practicable and (y) furnished with a copy of the proposed filing in advance of the filing thereof with the Commission.
provided, however,
b) If, prior to the later of (x) the Closing Date and (y) the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below), any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which (i) the Time of Sale Information (prior to the Closing Date) or the Prospectus (prior to the later of the Closing Date and the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period), in both cases as then amended or supplemented, would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Information (prior to the Closing Date) or the Prospectus (prior to the later of the Closing Date and the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period) to comply with law, the Company will promptly notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (a) above, file with the Commission (to the extent required) and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Information (prior to the Closing Date) or the Prospectus (prior to the later of the Closing Date and the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period) as may be necessary so that the statements in the Time of Sale Information (prior to the Closing Date) or the Prospectus (prior to the later of the Closing Date and the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period), in both cases as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Information (prior to the Closing Date) or the Prospectus (prior to the later of the Closing Date and the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period) will comply with law.
Amendments and Supplements to the Prospectus and Other Securities Act Matters.
The Company hereby expressly acknowledges that the indemnification and contribution provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereof are specifically applicable and relate to each registration statement, prospectus, amendment or supplement referred to in this Section 3.
c) The Company agrees to furnish the Underwriters, without charge, as many copies of the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto as they shall have reasonably requested through the later of the Closing Date and the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period. As used herein, the term "Prospectus Delivery Period" means such period of time after the first date of the public offering of the Securities as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters a prospectus relating to the Securities is required by law to be delivered (or required to be delivered but for Rule 172 under the Securities Act) in connection with sales of the Securities by any Underwriter or dealer.
Copies of the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
d) . Prior to the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will advise the Representatives promptly, and confirm such advice in writing: (i)
Notice to the Representatives
 
when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective; (ii) when any supplement to the Prospectus or any amendment to the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed; (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or the receipt of any comments from the Commission relating to the Registration Statement or any other request by the Commission for any additional information; (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act; (v) of the occurrence of any event within the Prospectus Delivery Period as a result of which the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading; (vi) of the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and (vii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, will obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
e) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Securities for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business.
Blue Sky Compliance.
f) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
g) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
h) Prior to the end of the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission all reports and documents required to be filed under Section 13 or 15 of the Exchange Act. The Company will make generally available to its security holders and the Representatives as soon as practicable an earning statement that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
 
of the Commission promulgated thereunder covering a period of at least twelve months beginning with the first fiscal quarter of the Company occurring after the "effective date" (as defined in Rule 158) of the Registration Statement.
i) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company and its subsidiaries will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries similar to the Securities or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Securities (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Securities).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
j) The Company and its subsidiaries will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company or its subsidiaries to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Manipulation of Price.
k) . The Company will, pursuant to reasonable procedures developed in good faith, retain copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
Record Retention
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
S 4. . The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation: (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Securities (including all printing and engraving costs); (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities; (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors; (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Securities; (v) all reasonable filing fees, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Securities for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws and preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto; (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities; (vii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities with the ratings agencies; (viii) all fees and expenses (including
ECTION
Payment of Expenses
 
reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Securities by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer; and (ix) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
S 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of each Representation Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
ECTION
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
a) . No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, and no proceeding for such purpose, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or pursuant to Section 8A under the Securities Act, shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission. The Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act) and in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof. All requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
Registration Compliance; No Stop Order
b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from the Company's independent registered public accountants a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from the Company's independent registered public accountants a letter dated such date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
d) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
(i) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change;
(ii) there shall not have been any change or decrease specified in the letter of the Company's independent registered public accountants referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section 5 which is, in the judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; and
 
(iii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act.
e) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinions and negative assurance letter of Mayer Brown LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the forms of which are attached as Exhibits A-1 and A-2 and the favorable opinion of Michael P. Rissman, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-3.
Opinions of Counsel for the Company.
f) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
(i) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
(ii) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
h) . The Company shall have entered into the Supplemental Indenture and the Underwriters shall have received executed counterparts thereof.
The Supplemental Indenture
i) . Either no filing with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA") shall be required, or FINRA shall have confirmed that it has not raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection
j) . On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
 
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
S 6. . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, 11(i) (solely as it applies to a suspension or limitation in trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities) or 11(iv), or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Securities on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Securities, including but not limited to reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
ECTION
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
S 7. . Each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that:
ECTION
Certain Agreements of the Underwriters
(A) It has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any "free writing prospectus", as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (which term includes use of any written information furnished to the Commission by the Company and not incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any press release issued by the Company) other than (i) a free writing prospectus that, solely as a result of use by such underwriter, would not trigger an obligation to file such free writing prospectus with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433, (ii) any free writing prospectus listed on Exhibit C (including any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Representatives), or (iii) any free writing prospectus prepared by such underwriter and approved by the Company in writing in advance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Underwriters may use a term sheet substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto without the consent of the Company.
(B) It is not subject to any pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act with respect to the offering (and will promptly notify the Company if any such proceeding against it is initiated during the Prospectus Delivery Period).
(C) Each Underwriter agrees to the offering restrictions as set forth on Exhibit E hereto.
 
S 8. .
ECTION
Indemnification
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or any amendment thereto or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading, or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information or any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of a single firm of counsel chosen by Wells Fargo and a single firm of local counsel in each relevant local jurisdiction) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriters or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
provided, however
(b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and its directors, officers and employees and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses that arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information; and to reimburse the Company and each such director, officer, employee or controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of their counsel) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company or such director, officer, employee or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim,
Indemnification of the Company.
 
damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information are the following statements set forth in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus: (i) the first sentence of the third paragraph under the heading "Underwriting", (ii) the third sentence of the fifth paragraph under the heading "Underwriting", (iii) the sixth paragraph under the heading "Underwriting", (iv) the seventh paragraph under the heading "Underwriting" and (v) the sixth, seventh and eighth sentences of the twelve paragraph under the heading "Underwriting". The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability under this Section 8 to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure and will not relieve it from any liability otherwise than under this Section 8. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded, based on advice from counsel, that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by Wells Fargo in the case of the indemnified parties referred to in Section 8(a) and by the Company in the case of the indemnified parties referred to in Section 8(b) and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
(d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8(c) hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request or disputed in good faith the indemnified party's entitlement to such reimbursement prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
S 9. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Securities. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged
ECTION
Contribution
 
omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim. The provisions set forth in Section 8 hereof with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for contribution is to be made under this Section 9; provided, however, that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 8 hereof for purposes of indemnification.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total underwriting discount received by such Underwriter in connection with the Securities underwritten by it exceeds the amount of any damages that such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A, and not joint. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director, officer and employee of the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
S 10. . If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion that the aggregate principal amounts of such Securities set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Securities and the aggregate principal amount of such Securities with
ECTION
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
 
respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party, except that the provisions of Sections 4, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
S 11. . Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time: (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of the federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities in the manner and on the terms described in the Time of Sale Information or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; (iv) in the judgment of the Representatives there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
ECTION
Termination of this Agreement
S 12. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an
ECTION
No Fiduciary Duty
 
advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
S 13. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriters, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Securities and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
ECTION
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
S 14. . All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or delivered by overnight courier to the parties hereto as follows:
ECTION
Notices
If to the Representatives:
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
60 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
Attention: Leveraged Debt Capital Markets, Second Floor
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28288
Attention: Transaction Management
with a copy to:
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
60 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
Attention: General Counsel, 36
th
Floor
 
with a copy to:
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP
One New York Plaza
New York, New York 10004-1980
Attention: Valerie Ford Jacob
If to the Company:
Republic Services, Inc.
18500 North Allied Way
Phoenix, Arizona 85054
Attention: Michael P. Rissman, Executive Vice President and General Counsel
With a copy to:
Mayer Brown LLP
71 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attention: Jodi Simala
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
S 15. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Securities as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
ECTION
Successors
S 16. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
ECTION
Partial Unenforceability
S 17. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
ECTION
Governing Law Provisions
 
S 18. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
ECTION
General Provisions
S 19. . In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
ECTION
USA Patriot Act
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written. It is understood that by executing this Underwriting Agreement on behalf of each of the Underwriters, each Representative represents that it is authorized to execute this Underwriting Agreement on behalf of each of the Underwriters.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the foregoing and on the basis of the information we gained in the course of performing the services referred to above, we confirm to you that nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that:
(1) the Registration Statement, at the time of its most recent effective date with respect to the Underwriters (including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C to be part of the Registration Statement at the time of such effectiveness), contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
(2) the Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or
(3) the Prospectus, as of its date and as of the date hereof, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading:
that we do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information or the Prospectus, except as otherwise specifically provided in paragraphs (v) and (ix) in our opinion of today's date addressed to you, and we do not express any belief with respect to the financial statements or other financial or accounting data or information or assessments of or reports on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting contained in, incorporated by reference into or omitted from the Registration Statement, Time of Sale Information or Prospectus.
provided, however,
 
 
EXHIBIT A-4
 
 
 
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and preliminary prospectus supplement) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll-free at 1-800-503-4611 or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at 1-800-326-5897.
This pricing term sheet supplements the preliminary prospectus supplement issued by Republic Services, Inc. on May 14, 2012 relating to its Prospectus dated April 27, 2012.
 
Pricing Term Sheet dated May 14, 2012
 
Arbor Hills Holdings L.L.C.
BFGSI Series 1997-A Trust
BFI Energy Systems of Boston, Inc.
BFI Energy Systems of Plymouth, Inc.
BFI Trans River (LP), Inc.
Browning-Ferris Industries Asia Pacific, Inc.
Browning-Ferris Industries Europe, Inc.
Champlin Refuse, Inc.
Congress Development Co.
Consolidated Processing, Inc.
Continental Waste Industries - Gary, Inc.
EcoSort, L.L.C.
Evergreen National Indemnity Company
Foothill Sanitary Landfill, Inc.
Kent-Meridian Disposal Company
Marion Resource Recovery Facility, LLC
Minneapolis Refuse, Incorporated
Modern-Mallard Energy, LLC
Pine Bend Holdings L.L.C.
Roosevelt Associates
VHG, Inc.
Warner Hill Development Company
 
In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area that has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a "Relevant Member State"), each Underwriter has represented and agreed that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State it has not made and will not at any time make an offer of notes to the public in that Relevant Member State other than:
(a) to any legal entity that is a qualified investor as defined in the Prospectus Directive;
(b) to fewer than 100 or, if the Relevant Member State has implemented the relevant provision of the 2010 PD Amending Directive, 150 natural or legal persons (other than qualified investors as defined in the Prospectus Directive), as permitted under the Prospectus Directive, subject to obtaining the prior consent of the representatives for any such offer; or
(c) in any other circumstances falling within Article 3(2) of the Prospectus Directive,
provided that no such offer of notes shall require an issuer or any Underwriter to publish a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 (or supplement a prospectus pursuant to Article 16) of the Prospectus Directive. For the purposes of this provision, the term an "offer of notes to the public" in relation to any Securities in any Relevant Member State means a communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the notes to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe for the notes, as the same may be varied in the Relevant Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in the Relevant Member State.
Any offer of Securities in a Relevant Member State will be made pursuant to an exemption under the Prospectus Directive from the requirement to publish a prospectus for offers of notes. Accordingly any person making or intending to make an offer in that Relevant Member State of Securities that are the subject of the placement contemplated in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus may do so only in circumstances in which no obligation arises for the Company or any of the Underwriters to publish a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive, in each case in relation to such offer. The Underwriters have not authorized, nor do they authorize, the making of any offer of Securities in circumstances in which an obligation arises for the Underwriters to publish a prospectus for such offer.
The term "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC (and amendments thereto, including the 2010 PD Amending Directive, to the extent implemented in the Relevant Member State), and includes any relevant implementing measure in the Relevant Member State. The term "2010 PD Amending Directive" means Directive 2010/73/EU.
The Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus are only being distributed to, and are only directed at, (1) persons who are outside the United Kingdom, (2)
 
investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the "Order") or (3) high net worth entities, and such other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order (each such person being referred to as a "relevant person"). The Securities are only available to, and any invitation, offer or agreement to subscribe, purchase or otherwise acquire the Securities will be engaged in only with, relevant persons.
Each Underwriter has represented and agreed that:
(a) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated, and will only communicate or cause to be communicated, an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ("FSMA") received by it in connection with the issue or sale of the Securities in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to us; and
(b) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
INDENTURE, dated as of May 21, 2012 between Republic Services, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "").
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company deems it necessary to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes senior debt securities (the "") evidencing its unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of the Securities, unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such times and to have such other provisions as shall be fixed as hereinafter provided;
Securities
WHEREAS, this Indenture is subject to, and shall be governed by, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act;
All acts and things necessary have been done to make (i) the Securities, when duly issued and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder, the valid obligations of the Company and (ii) this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company;
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows:
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires or unless such definition is changed or amended in a supplement or amendment to this Indenture:
(a) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
(b) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(c) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
(d) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;
(e) all references to $, US$, dollars or United States dollars shall refer to the lawful currency of the United States of America; and
(f) all references herein to particular Sections or Articles refer to this Indenture unless otherwise so indicated.
Certain terms used principally in various articles herein are defined in those articles.
"", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in .
Act
Section 1.05
"" has the meaning specified in .
Additional Interest Notice
Section 7.08
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
"" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect at the time of such transfer or transaction.
Applicable Procedures
"" means, when used in connection with a sale and leaseback transaction, at any date of determination, the product of (1) the net proceeds from such sale and leaseback transaction multiplied by (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full years of the term of the lease relating to the property involved in such sale and leaseback transaction (without regard to any options to renew or extend such term) remaining at the date of the making of such computation and the denominator of which is the number of full years of the term of such lease measured from the first day of such term.
Attributable Debt
"" means Title 11, United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended, or any similar United States Federal or state law or foreign law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, winding up, liquidation, reorganization or relief of debtors or any amendment to, succession to or change in any such law.
Bankruptcy Law
"" means either the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee or subcommittee of such Board, except as the context may otherwise require.
Board of Directors
 
"" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
"" means any Global Security in the form of evidencing all or part of a series of Securities, authenticated and delivered to the Depositary for such series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depositary or nominee.
Book-Entry Security
Exhibit A
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies in New York City and Phoenix, Arizona are authorized or obligated by law to close.
Business Day
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests (including partnership interests) in (however designated) the equity of such Person, including any Preferred Stock, but excluding any debt securities convertible into such equity.
Capital Stock
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Securities Act, Exchange Act and Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
"" means Republic Services, Inc., until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
"" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any one of its Chairman of the Board, its President, its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer or a Vice President (regardless of Vice Presidential designation), and by any one of its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (the "") of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
"" means, as of any date, the total amount of assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom (1) all current liabilities (excluding any current liabilities which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed or which are supported by other borrowings with a maturity of more than 12 months from the date of calculation,) (2) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangibles and (3) appropriate adjustments on account of minority interests of other Persons holding stock of the Company's Subsidiaries, all as set forth on the most recent balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (but, in any event, as of a date within 120 days of the date of determination) in each case excluding intercompany items and computed in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" means, with respect to any Person, the consolidation of the accounts of such Person and each of its subsidiaries if and to the extent the accounts of such Person and each of its subsidiaries would normally be consolidated with those of such Person, all in accordance with GAAP. The term "Consolidated" shall have a similar meaning.
Consolidation
"" means the designated office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date of execution of this Indenture is located at 625 Marquette Ave 11
Corporate Trust Office
th
Floor, Minneapolis, MN 55402 or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
"" means any event that is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, with respect to the Securities issued in the form of one or more Book-Entry Securities, The Depository Trust Company (""), its nominees and successors, or another Person designated as Depositary by the Company, which must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act.
Depositary
DTC
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 5.01
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means the sum, without duplication, of the following items outstanding as of the date Exempted Debt is being
Exempted Debt
 
determined with respect to any series of Securities: (1) Indebtedness of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries Incurred after the date of the supplemental indenture which sets forth the relevant series of Securities and secured by Liens created, assumed or otherwise Incurred or permitted to exist pursuant to hereof and (2) Attributable Debt of the Company and the Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of all sale and leaseback transactions with regard to any Principal Property entered into pursuant to hereof.
Section 10.05
Section 10.06
"" means, with respect to any asset or property, the sale value that would be obtained in an arm's-length free market transaction between an informed and willing seller under no compulsion to sell and an informed and willing buyer under no compulsion to buy. Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company acting in good faith and shall be evidenced by a resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fair Market Value
"" means all Indebtedness for borrowed money, including purchase money indebtedness, having a maturity of more than one year from the date of its creation or having a maturity of less than one year but by its terms being renewable or extendible, at the option of the obligor in respect thereof, beyond one year from its creation.
Funded Debt
"" or "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as in effect from time to time.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
GAAP
"" means Global Securities to be issued as Book-Entry Securities issued to the Depositary in accordance with .
Global Securities
Section 3.06
"" means the registered holder of any Security.
Holder
"" means to issue, assume, guarantee, incur or otherwise become liable for. The terms "Incurred," "Incurrence" and "Incurring" shall each have a correlative meaning.
Incur
"" means with respect to any Person at any date of determination (without duplication), indebtedness for borrowed money or indebtedness evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or other similar instruments given to finance the acquisition of any businesses, properties or assets of any kind (including, without limitation, capital stock or other equity interests in any Person).
Indebtedness
"" means this instrument as originally executed (including all exhibits and schedules thereto) and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof.
Indenture
"" means either one or more independent investment banking institutions of national
Independent Investment Banker
 
standing chosen by the Company for a particular series of Securities or, if such firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
"" means, with respect to any Security, the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date
"" with respect to any property or assets, means any mortgage or deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, lien, charge, easement (other than any easement not materially impairing usefulness or marketability), encumbrance, preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever on or with respect to such property or assets (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing), but not including the interest of a lessor under a lease that is an operating lease under GAAP.
Lien
"" means, when used with respect to any Security, the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due and payable as therein provided or as provided in this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto, whether at Stated Maturity by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
Maturity
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor rating agency.
Moody's
"" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or a Vice President (regardless of Vice Presidential designation), and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, complying with Section 1.03 and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, unless an Opinion of Independent Counsel is required pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, and complying with Section 1.03.
Opinion of Counsel
"" means a written opinion of counsel which is issued by a Person who is not an employee, director or consultant (other than non-employee legal counsel) of the Company and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, and complying with Section 1.03.
Opinion of Independent Counsel
"" when used with respect to any series of Securities means, as of the date of determination, all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
Outstanding
(a) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(b) Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company or any Affiliate thereof) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company or any Affiliate thereof (if the Company or any Affiliate thereof shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
(c) Securities, to the extent provided in and , with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance or covenant defeasance as provided in ; and
Sections 4.02
4.03
Article IV
(d) Securities paid pursuant to Section 3.07 or Securities in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee and the Company proof reasonably satisfactory to each of them that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands the Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor.
"" means any Person (including the Company) authorized by the Company to pay the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any Securities on behalf of the Company.
Paying Agent
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under in exchange for a mutilated Security or in lieu of a lost, destroyed or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, lost, destroyed or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
Section 3.07
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all shares, interests, participations or other equivalents (however designated, whether voting or nonvoting) of such Person's preferred or preference stock, whether now outstanding or issued after the date of the Indenture, including, without limitation, all series and classes of such preferred or preference stock.
Preferred Stock
"" means any land, land improvements or building, together with the land upon which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof, in each case, owned or leased by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and located in the United States, the gross book value (without deduction of any reserve for depreciation) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made is an amount which exceeds 2% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets but not including such land, land improvements, buildings or portions thereof which is financed through the issuance of tax exempt governmental obligations, or any such property that has been determined by Board Resolution not to be of material importance to the respective businesses conducted by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary effective as of the date such resolution is adopted.
Principal Property
"" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed pursuant to any provision in this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto.
Redemption Date
"" when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed pursuant to any provision in this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture or any supplement or amendment thereto.
Redemption Price
"" means (i) one or more Independent Investment Bankers chosen by the Company for any particular series of Securities, provided, however, that if any Reference Treasury Dealer shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company will substitute for such Reference Treasury Dealer another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Independent Investment Banker after consultation with the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on any Securities means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by (whether or not a Business Day) next preceding such Interest Payment Date.
Regular Record Date
Section 3.01
 
"" when used with respect to the Trustee means any officer assigned to the Corporate Trust Office or any agent of the Trustee appointed hereunder, including any vice president, assistant vice president, assistant secretary or any other officer or assistant officer of the Trustee or any agent of the Trustee appointed hereunder to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his or her knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
"" means any Subsidiary of the Company which, at the time of determination, owns or is a lessee pursuant to a capital lease of any Principal Property.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" or "" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and, more particularly, means any Security or Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture; provided, however, that, if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to the Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
Security
Securities
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor rating agency.
S&P
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to .
Special Record Date
Section 3.08
"" means, when used with respect to any Security, the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the payment of principal or interest of such Security is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
"" of a Person means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, association, partnership or other business entity of which at least a majority of the total voting power of the Capital Stock entitled (without regard to the occurrence of any contingency) to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof is at the time owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by (1) such Person, (2) such Person and one or more Subsidiaries of such Person or (3) one or more Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
 
"" means (1) any evidence of Indebtedness, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition, issued by the United States of America, or an instrumentality or agency thereof, and guaranteed fully as to principal, premium, if any, and interest by the United States of America, (2) any certificate of deposit, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition, issued by, or time deposit of, a commercial banking institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System and that has combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000, whose debt has a rating, at the time as of which any investment therein is made, of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's or any successor rating agency or "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P or any successor rating agency, including the Trustee or any of its Affiliates, (3) commercial paper, maturing not more than one year after the date of acquisition, issued by a corporation (other than an Affiliate or Subsidiary of the Company) organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America with a rating, at the time as of which any investment therein is made, of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's or "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P, including the Trustee or any of its Affiliates, and (4) any money market deposit accounts issued or offered by a domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000, provided, that the short term debt of such commercial bank has a rating, at the time of investment, of "P-1" (or higher) according to Moody's or "A-1" (or higher) according to S&P.
Temporary Cash Investments
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
"" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture, until a successor trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean such successor trustee.
Trustee
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, or any successor statute.
Trust Indenture Act
 
 
 
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive an Officers' Certificate in a form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture (including any covenant compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) relating to the proposed action have been complied with, and an Opinion of Counsel in a form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Trustee stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that, in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such certificates or opinions is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
(a) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or individual or firm signing such opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(b) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(c) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual or such firm, he or it has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or it to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(d) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual or such firm, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate of an officer of the Company or other obligor on the Securities may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company or other obligor on the Securities stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company or other obligor on the Securities, unless such officer or counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous. Opinions of Counsel required to be delivered to the Trustee may have qualifications customary for opinions of the type required and counsel delivering such Opinions of Counsel may rely on certificates of the Company or government or other officials customary for opinions of the type required, including certificates certifying as to matters of fact, including that various financial covenants have been complied with.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company or other obligor on the Securities may be based, insofar as it relates to accounting matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an accountant or firm of accountants in the employ of the Company, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the accounting matters upon which his certificate or opinion may be based are erroneous. Any certificate or opinion of any independent firm of public accountants filed with the Trustee shall contain a statement that such firm is independent with respect to the Company.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
 
(a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series or one or more series, as the case may be, may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or
 
instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this .
Act
Section 1.05
(b) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
(c) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act by the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof, in respect of anything done, suffered or omitted to be done by the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Company or any other obligor of the Securities in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
(d) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(e) If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of such Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding Trust Indenture Act Section 316(c), any such record date shall be the record date specified in or pursuant to such Board Resolution, which shall be a date not more than 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders generally in connection therewith and no later than the date such first solicitation is completed.
If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Securities then Outstanding have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for this purpose the Securities then Outstanding shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after such record date.
 
(f) For purposes of this Indenture, any action by the Holders which may be taken in writing may be taken by electronic means or as otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with:
(a) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company or any other obligor on the Securities shall be sufficient for every purpose (except as provided in , or , in which case, the notice shall be delivered by certified mail) hereunder if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier, to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Services, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Holders or the Company, or any other obligor on the Securities by the Trustee and shall be deemed given upon actual receipt by the Trustee; or
Section 5.01(c)
(d)
(e)
(b) the Company by the Trustee or any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose (except as provided in ,  or , in which case, the notice shall be delivered by certified mail) hereunder if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier, to the Company addressed to Republic Services, Inc., 18500 N. Allied Way, Phoenix, Arizona 85054, Attention: Chief Financial Officer, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
Section 5.01(c)
(d)
(e)
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods; provided, however, that (a) the party providing such written instructions, subsequent to such transmission of written instructions, shall provide the originally executed instructions or directions to the Trustee in a timely manner, and (b) such originally executed instructions or directions shall be signed by an authorized representative of the party providing such instructions or directions. If the party elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee's understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's reliance upon and compliance with such instructions notwithstanding such instructions conflict or are inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction. The party providing electronic instructions agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk or interception and misuse by third parties.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, as long as the Securities are in the form of a Global Security, notice to the Holders may be made electronically in accordance with procedures of the Depositary.
 
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, or delivered by recognized overnight courier, to each Holder affected by such event, at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Any notice when mailed to a Holder in the aforesaid manner shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder whether or not actually received by such Holder. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to mail notice of any event as required by any provision of this Indenture, then any method of giving such notice as shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and reasonably calculated to reach its destination shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
 
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act or another provision which is required or deemed to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, the provision or requirement of the Trust Indenture Act shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
 
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company and the Trustee shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person (other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Paying Agent and the Holders) any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
 
THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
 
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Maturity or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of any Security) payment of interest or principal or premium, if any, need not be made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Maturity or Stated Maturity and no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Maturity or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, to the next succeeding Business Day.
 
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture shall be given independent effect so that if a particular action or condition is not permitted by any such covenants, the fact that it would be permitted by an exception to, or be otherwise within the limitations of, another covenant shall not avoid the occurrence of a Default or an Event of Default if such action is taken or condition exists.
 
All schedules and exhibits attached hereto are by this reference made a part hereof with the same effect as if herein set forth in full.
 
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original; but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND
 
ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
The parties hereto acknowledge that in accordance with Section 326 of the U.S.A. Patriot Act, the Trustee, like all financial institutions and in order to help fight the funding of terrorism and money laundering, is required to obtain, verify, and record information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an account with the Trustee. The parties to this Indenture agree that they will provide the Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the Trustee to satisfy the requirements of the U.S.A. Patriot Act.
 
The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form of hereto or in such form as shall otherwise be established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto or approved from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution in accordance with , shall have such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture or any indenture supplemental hereto, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Securities may be listed, or to conform to usage.
Exhibit A
Section 3.01
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods on a steel engraved border or steel engraved borders, or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officer or officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
The terms and provisions set forth in any Security shall constitute, and are hereby made a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
 
Subject to , the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
Section 6.12
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture (as such Indenture may be supplemented or amended).
 
 
 
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities shall rank equally and pari passu in right of payment and may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions and set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto which may amend the terms of this Indenture unless prohibited by the Trust Indenture Act, prior to the issuances of Securities of any series, any or all of the following, as applicable (each of which, if so provided, may be determined from time to time by the Company with respect to unissued Securities of the series when issued from time to time):
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of such series from all other series of Securities);
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to , , , , or ) and whether any series may be reopened for additional Securities of that series; in the event that such series of Securities may be reopened from time to
Section 3.04
3.05
3.06
3.07
9.06
11.08
 
time for issuances of additional Securities of such series, the terms thereof shall indicate whether any such additional Securities shall have the same terms as the prior Securities of such series or whether the Company may establish additional or different terms with respect to such additional Securities;
(3) the date or dates, or the method by which such date or dates will be determined or extended, on which the principal (and premium, if any) of the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(4) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, whether such Securities shall be issued with original issue discount or at a percentage of their principal amount, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest will be payable and the Regular Record Date, if any, for the interest payable on any Security on any Interest Payment Date, or the method by which such date shall be determined, and the basis upon which such interest shall be calculated if other than that of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
(5) the place or places, if any, other than or in addition to the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable, Securities of the series maybe surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for the conversion or exchange, as applicable, and where notices or demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served;
(6) the period or periods within which, or the date or dates on which, the price or prices at which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have the option;
(7) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase Securities or the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, the price or prices at which, and other terms and condition upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(8) if other than the Trustee, the identity of each Security Registrar and/or Paying Agent;
(9) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to or the method by which such portion shall be determined;
Section 5.02
 
(10) whether the amount of payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any index, formula or other method, and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(11) provisions, if any, granting special rights to the Holders of Securities of the series upon the occurrence of such events as may be specified;
(12) any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants or other provisions (including any deletions from, modifications of or additions to any of the provisions of ) of the Company with respect to Securities of the series, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants or other provisions are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants or other provisions set forth herein;
Section 5.01
(13) the applicability, if any, of and to the Securities of the series (and, in the case of , if applicable, any additional covenants subject to covenant defeasance) and any provisions in modification of, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of ;
Sections 4.02
4.03
Section 4.03
Article IV
(14) if the Securities of such series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, then the form and/or terms of such certificates, documents or conditions;
(15) the terms of any temporary securities, the provisions for deposit and withdrawal from a common depository and terms related thereto;
(16) if the Securities of the series are to be secured or convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company), the terms and conditions upon which such Securities of the series will be so secured or convertible or exchangeable (including, without limitation, the initial conversion price or rate, the conversion period, the conversion agent, if any, adjustments of the applicable conversion price or rate and any requirements with respect to the reservation of shares or Securities for purposes of conversion);
(17) whether the Securities will contain any transfer restrictions; and
(18) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act).
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise by provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution and set forth in such Officers' Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series or to establish additional terms of such series of Securities (which additional terms shall only be applicable to unissued or additional Securities of such series).
 
If any of the terms of the Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions, a copy of an appropriate record of such action(s) shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the Securities of such series.
 
The Securities shall be issuable only in fully registered form without coupons and only in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, unless provided otherwise in a supplemental indenture with respect to any series of Securities.
 
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by one of its Chairman of the Board, its President, its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer or one of its Vice Presidents. The signatures of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signature of an individual who was at any time the proper officer of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such office at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities; and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities as provided in this Indenture and not otherwise. In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive, and, subject to , shall be fully protected in relying upon:
Section 6.01
(a) A copy of the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors in or pursuant to which the terms and form of the Securities were established, certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect as of the date of such certificate, and if the terms and form of such Securities were established by an Officers' Certificate pursuant to authorization of the Board of Directors, such Officers' Certificate;
(b) an executed supplemental indenture, if any;
(c) an Officers' Certificate delivered in accordance with ; and
Section 1.03
 
(d) an Opinion of Counsel which shall state;
(1) that the form of such Securities has been established by a supplemental indenture or by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors in accordance with and in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
Section 2.01
(2) that the terms of such Securities have been established in accordance with and in conformity with the other provisions of this Indenture; and
Section 3.01
(3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
The Trustee shall have the right to decline to authenticate and deliver any Securities under this Section if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that such action may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee in good faith shall determine that such action would expose the Trustee to personal liability to existing Holders.
Unless otherwise provided for in the form of Security, each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of , in case the Company, pursuant to , shall, in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions, be consolidated, amalgamated, combined or merged with or into any other Person or shall sell, assign, convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, and the successor Person resulting from such consolidation, amalgamation, or combination or surviving such merger, or into which the Company shall have been merged, or the successor Person which shall have participated in the sale, assignment, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition as aforesaid, shall have executed an indenture supplemental hereto with the Trustee pursuant to , any of the Securities authenticated or delivered prior to such consolidation, amalgamation, combination, merger, sale, assignment, conveyance, transfer, lease or other disposition may, from time to time, at the request of the successor Person, be exchanged for other Securities executed in the name of the successor Person with such changes in phraseology and form as may be appropriate, but otherwise in substance of like tenor as the Securities surrendered for
Section 3.01
Article VIII
Article VIII
 
such exchange and of like principal amount; and the Trustee, upon Company Request of the successor Person, shall authenticate and deliver Securities as specified in such request for the purpose of such exchange. If Securities shall at any time be authenticated and delivered in any new name of a successor Person pursuant to this in exchange or substitution for or upon registration of transfer of any Securities, such successor Person, at the option of the Holders but without expense to them, shall provide for the exchange of all Securities at the time Outstanding for Securities authenticated and delivered in such new name.
Section 3.03
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities on behalf of the Trustee. Unless limited by the terms of such appointment, an authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as any Security Registrar or Paying Agent to deal with the Company and its Affiliates.
 
(a) Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officer or officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
(b) If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay, except to comply with applicable law. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to , without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
Section 10.02
 
The Company shall cause the Trustee to keep, so long as it is the Security Registrar, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or such other office as the Trustee may designate, a register for each series of Securities (the register maintained in such office or in any other office or agency designated pursuant to being herein sometimes referred to as the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as the Security Registrar may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee shall initially be the "" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as
Section 10.02
Security Register
Security Registrar
 
herein provided. The Company may change the Security Registrar or appoint one or more co-Security Registrars without prior notice; provided that the Company shall promptly notify the Trustee if the Company changes the Security Registrar or appoints a co-Security Registrar.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security at the office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to , the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount.
Section 10.02
Furthermore, any Holder of the Global Security shall, by acceptance of such Global Security, agree that transfers of beneficial interests in such Global Security may be effected only through a book-entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Security (or its agent), and that ownership of a beneficial interest in a Security shall be required to be reflected in a book entry.
At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for other Securities of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, Securities of the same series which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same Indebtedness, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer, or for exchange, repurchase or redemption, shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any registration of transfer, exchange or redemption of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to or not involving any transfer, except for any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
Sections 3.05
3.07
The Company shall not be required (a) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of the Securities selected for redemption under and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing or (b) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of Securities being redeemed in part.
Section 11.04
 
Any Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, any Global Security, whether pursuant to this , , , , 9 or or otherwise, shall also be a Global Security and bear the legend specified in hereto.
Section 3.05
Sections 3.04
3.06
3.07
.06
11.08
Exhibit A
 
The following provisions shall govern Global Securities except as set forth in an indenture supplemental hereto:
(a) Each Global Security initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be deposited with, or on behalf of, the Depositary or with the Trustee as custodian for such Depositary and (iii) bear legends as set forth in hereto.
Exhibit A
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Security.
Agent Members
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, no Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof unless (i) such Depositary (A) has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or (B) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered as such under the Exchange Act, and in either case the Company fails to appoint a successor Depositary, (ii) the Company, at its option, executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order stating that it elects to cause the issuance of the Securities in certificated form and that all Global Securities shall be exchanged in whole for Securities that are not Global Securities (in which case, such exchange shall be effected by the Trustee) or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default.
(c) If any Global Security is to be exchanged for other Securities or canceled in whole, it shall be surrendered by or on behalf of the Depositary or its nominee to the Trustee, as Security Registrar, for exchange or cancellation as provided in this . If any Global Security is to be exchanged for other Securities or canceled in part, or if another Security is to be exchanged in whole or in part for a beneficial interest in any Global Security, then either (i) such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or cancellation as provided in this or (ii) the principal amount thereof shall be reduced or increased by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged or
Article III
Article III
 
canceled, or equal to the principal amount of such other Security to be so exchanged for a beneficial interest therein, as the case may be, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Trustee, as Security Registrar, whereupon the Trustee, in accordance with the Applicable Procedures, shall instruct the Depositary or its authorized representative to make a corresponding adjustment to its records. Upon any such surrender or adjustment of a Global Security, the Trustee shall, subject to this and as otherwise provided in this , authenticate and deliver any Securities issuable in exchange for such Global Security (or any portion thereof) to or upon the order of, and registered in such names as may be directed by, the Depositary or its authorized representative. Upon the request of the Trustee in connection with the occurrence of any of the events specified in the preceding , the Company shall promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of Securities that are not in the form of Global Securities. The Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely upon any order, direction or request of the Depositary or its authorized representative which is given or made pursuant to this if such order, direction or request is given or made in accordance with the Applicable Procedures.
Section 3.06(c)
Article III
Subsection (b)
Article III
(d) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Security or any portion thereof, whether pursuant to this or otherwise, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Security, unless such Security is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof.
Article III
(e) The Depositary or its nominee, as registered owner of a Global Security, shall be the Holder of such Global Security for all purposes under this Indenture and the Securities, and owners of beneficial interests in a Global Security shall hold such interests pursuant to the Applicable Procedures. Accordingly, any such owner's beneficial interest in a Global Security will be shown only on, and the transfer of such interest shall be effected only through, records maintained by the Depositary or its nominee or its Agent Members.
The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or any Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of Depositary records relating to, or payments made on account of, beneficial ownership interests in a Global Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any Depositary records relating to such beneficial ownership interests, or for transfers of beneficial interests in the Securities or any transactions between the Depositary and beneficial owners.
 
If (a) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (b) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee, such security or indemnity, in each case, as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon a Company Request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a replacement Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a replacement Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any replacement Securities under this , the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to pay all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes or other governmental charges that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee, its agents and its counsel) connected therewith.
Section 3.07
Every replacement Security issued pursuant to this in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
Section 3.07
The provisions of this are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
Section 3.07
 
Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of , interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on the Stated Maturity of such interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name the Security (or any Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest payment.
Section 3.01
Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of , any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on the Stated Maturity of such interest, and interest on such defaulted interest at the then applicable interest rate borne by the Securities, to the extent lawful (such defaulted interest and interest thereon herein collectively called ""), shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the Regular Record Date; and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in  or  below:
Section 3.01
Defaulted Interest
Subsection (a)
(b)
(a) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or any relevant Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date (not less than 30 days after such notice) of the proposed payment (the ""), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the Special Payment Date, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this  provided. Thereupon, the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the Special Payment Date and shall fix the Special Record Date not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of such Special Record Date. In the name and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder at its address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date and Special Payment Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities are registered on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following .
Special Payment Date
Subsection (a)
Subsection (b)
 
(b) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by this Indenture not inconsistent with the requirements of such exchange, if, after written notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this , such payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subsection (b)
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this , each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
Section 3.08
 
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and the Company, or the Trustee on behalf of the Company, shall use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders; provided, however, that any such notice shall state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of redemption or exchange and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities; and provided further, however, that failure to use CUSIP numbers in any notice of redemption or exchange shall not affect the validity or sufficiency of such notice. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
 
Prior to and at the time of due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name any Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to ) interest on, such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Section 3.08
 
All Securities surrendered for payment, purchase, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange shall be delivered to the Trustee and, if not already canceled, shall be promptly canceled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this , except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall, upon written request of the Company, be disposed in accordance with the Trustee's standard procedures, unless by a Company Order received by the Trustee prior to such disposition, the Company shall direct that the canceled Securities be returned to it. The Trustee shall provide the Company a list of all Securities that have been canceled from time to time as requested by the Company.
Section 3.11
 
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by with respect to Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
Section 3.01
 
If pursuant to provision is made for either or both of (a) defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under or (b) covenant defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under , then the provisions of such Section or Sections, as the case may be, together with the other provisions of this (with such modifications thereto as may be specified pursuant to with respect to any Securities), shall be applicable to such Securities, and the Company may
Section 3.01
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
Article IV
Section 3.01
 
at its option by Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to such Securities, elect to have (if applicable) or (if applicable) be applied to such Outstanding Securities (the "") upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this .
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
Defeased Securities
Article IV
 
Upon the Company's exercise of the option applicable to this with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company and any other obligor upon the applicable series of Securities, if any, shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Defeased Securities on the date the conditions set forth in below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company and any other obligor under this Indenture shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the Defeased Securities, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (a) and (b) below, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such series of Securities and this Indenture insofar as such series of Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company and upon Company Request, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of Defeased Securities to receive, solely from the trust fund described in and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, such series of Securities, when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Defeased Securities under , , , , and , (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder, including, without limitation, the Trustee's rights under , and (d) this . Subject to compliance with this , the Company may exercise its option under this notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under with respect to a series of Securities.
Section 4.02
Section 4.04
defeasance
Section 4.05
Section 4.04
Sections 3.03
3.04
3.05
3.07
10.02
10.03
Section 6.07
Article IV
Article IV
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
 
Upon the Company's exercise of the option applicable to this with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under any covenant or provision contained or referred to in , and and any other covenant or provision if specified pursuant to , with respect to the Defeased Securities, on and after the date the conditions set forth in below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Defeased Securities shall thereafter be deemed to be not "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder, and the Events of Default under ,  and  and any Event of Default specified to be covered by this for a series in accordance with shall cease to be in full force and effect with respect to the applicable series of Securities. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the Defeased Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section, whether
Section 4.03
Sections 10.05
10.06
10.07
Section 3.01
Section 4.04
covenant defeasance
Section 5.01(c)
(d)
(e)
Section 4.03
Section 3.01
 
directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of any reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under ,  and  but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Defeased Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
Section 5.01(c)
(d)
(e)
 
The following shall be the conditions to application of either or to the Defeased Securities of or within a series:
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
(1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such series of Securities, (a) cash in United States dollars in an amount, (b) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms and with no further reinvestment will provide, not later than one day before the due date of payment, money in an amount, or (c) a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee to pay and discharge, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Defeased Securities, on the Stated Maturity of such principal or interest. For this purpose, "" means securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America for the timely payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the timely payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act), as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt;
U.S. Government Obligations
(2) In the case of an election under , the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States stating that (A) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling or (B) since the date hereof, there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States shall confirm that, the Holders and beneficial owners of the Outstanding Securities will
Section 4.02
 
not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred;
(3) In the case of an election under , the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States to the effect that the Holders and beneficial owners of the Outstanding Securities will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred;
Section 4.03
(4) No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or insofar as is concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period);
Section 5.01(f)
(5) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is a party or by which it is bound;
(6) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, unless such trust shall be registered under such Act or exempt from registration thereunder;
(7) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Independent Counsel in the United States to the effect that after the 91st day following the deposit, the trust funds will not be subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally;
(8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by the Company with the intent of preferring the holders of the applicable series of Securities over the other creditors of the Company with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors of the Company or others;
(9) No event or condition shall exist that would prevent the Company from making payments of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the applicable series of Securities on the date of such deposit or at any time ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit; and
(10) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Independent Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under or the covenant defeasance under (as the case may be) have been complied with.
Section 4.02
Section 4.03
 
Opinions of Independent Counsel required to be delivered under this shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and may have qualifications customary for opinions of the type required and counsel delivering such opinions may rely on certificates of the Company or government or other officials customary for opinions of the type required, which certificates shall be limited as to matters of fact, including that various financial covenants have been complied with.
Section 4.04
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this , such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions and limitations which may be imposed by the Company in connection therewith pursuant to .
Article IV
Section 3.01
 
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of , all United States dollars and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee pursuant to in respect of the Defeased Securities of any series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such series of Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (excluding the Company or any of its Affiliates acting as Paying Agent), as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such series of Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Section 10.03
Section 4.04
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Security pursuant to , the Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is imposed, assessed or for the account of the Holders of the Defeased Securities.
Section 3.01
Section 4.04
Anything in this to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any United States dollars or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect defeasance or covenant defeasance.
Article IV
Section 4.04
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with or , as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining,
Section 4.02
4.03
 
restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the applicable series of Securities shall be revived and reinstated, with present and prospective effect, as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to or , as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such United States dollars or U.S. Government Obligations in accordance with or , as the case may be; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment to the Trustee or Paying Agent of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security of such series following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Trustee or Paying Agent shall promptly pay any such amount to the Holders of the Securities of such series and the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such series of Securities to receive such payment from the United States dollars and U.S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee or Paying Agent pursuant to or .
Section 4.02
4.03
Section 4.02
4.03
Section 4.02
4.03
 
"," wherever used herein, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body) with respect to a particular series of Securities except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of :
Event of Default
Section 3.01
(a) there shall be a default in the payment of any installment of interest on any of the Securities of such series when it becomes due and payable, and such default shall continue for a period of 30 days;
(b) there shall be a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any of the Securities of such series when it becomes due and payable, whether at Maturity, upon redemption by declaration or otherwise;
(c) there shall be a breach of of this Indenture, and such breach shall continue for a period of 365 days after written notice to the Company specifying such failure and requiring the Company to remedy the same has been given, by certified mail, (x) to the Company by the Trustee or (y) to the Company and the Trustee by holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
Section 10.07
(d) there shall be a default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company applicable to such series of Securities (other than a default in the performance, or breach, of a covenant or agreement which is specifically dealt with in ,  and ) and such default or breach shall continue for a period of 60 days after written notice to the Company specifying such failure and requiring the Company to remedy the same has been given, by certified mail, (x) to the Company by the Trustee or (y) to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
Subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
 
(e) any Indebtedness of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company with an aggregate principal amount outstanding of at least $25,000,000 shall not have been paid when due and shall continue not to be paid for 25 days after written notice by certified mail, (x) to the Company by the Trustee or (y) to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series;
(f) (i) there shall have been the entry by a court of competent jurisdiction of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary under any applicable Federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or of any substantial part of their respective properties, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of their affairs, and any such decree or order for relief shall continue to be in effect, or any such other decree or order shall be unstayed and in effect, for a period of 60 consecutive days or (ii) (A) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary commences a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent, (B) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary consents to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Bankruptcy Law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, (C) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary files a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or state law, (D) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (1) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of, or taking possession by, a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary or of any substantial part of their respective properties, (2) makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors or (3) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due or (E) the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary takes any corporate action in furtherance of any such actions in this ; or
Subsection (f)(ii)
(g) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in ) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, shall occur and be continuing, unless the principal and interest with respect to all of the Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of that series (with each affected series voting as a separate class) then Outstanding may, and the Trustee at the
Section 5.01(f)
 
request of such Holders shall, declare all unpaid principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on all Securities of that series affected thereby to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by the Holders of the Securities) and upon any such declaration, such principal, premium, if any, and interest shall become due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in  of occurs and is continuing, unless the principal and interest with respect to the Securities shall have already become due and payable, then the Securities of all series shall ipso facto become and be due and payable immediately in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Securities, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date the Securities become due and payable, without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Thereupon, the Trustee may, at its discretion, proceed to protect and enforce the rights of the Holders of the Securities by appropriate judicial proceedings.
Subsection (f)
Section 5.01
Unless otherwise provided pursuant to , in the event of a declaration of acceleration because of an Event of Default set forth in  of has occurred and is continuing, such declaration of acceleration shall be automatically rescinded and annulled if the event of default triggering such Event of Default pursuant to  of shall be remedied or cured by the Company or the relevant Subsidiary or waived by the holders of the relevant Indebtedness within 60 days after the declaration of acceleration with respect thereto.
Section 3.01
Subsection (e)
Section 5.01
Subsection (e)
Section 5.01
At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to any of the Securities of any series, but before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any affected series (with each affected series voting as a separate class), by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
Article V
(a) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay:
(1) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee under this Indenture and the reasonable compensation, fees and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel,
(2) all overdue interest on all Outstanding Securities of such series,
(3) the principal of and premium, if any, on any Outstanding Securities of such series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate borne by such series of Securities, and
(4) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate borne by the applicable series of Securities;
(b) the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction; and
 
(c) all Events of Default, other than the non-payment of principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the applicable series of Securities which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in . No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
Section 5.13
 
The Company covenants that if
(a) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security of any series when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(b) default is made in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, on any Security of any series at the Stated Maturity thereof or otherwise, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such series of Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on the Securities of such series for principal and premium, if any, and interest, with interest upon the overdue principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon overdue installments of interest, at the rate borne by the Securities of such series; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders under this Indenture by such appropriate private or judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy, subject however to . No recovery of any such judgment upon any property of the Company shall affect or impair any rights, powers or remedies of the Trustee or the Holders.
Section 5.12
 
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities of any series or
 
the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of such series of Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal, and premium, if any, and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities of any series and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
(b) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, fees and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under .
Section 6.07
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities of any series or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
For purposes of this , the Trustee is hereby designated as the attorney-in-fact for the Holders.
Section 5.04
 
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities of such series or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, fees and expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
 
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this or otherwise on behalf of the Holders or the Trustee pursuant to this or through any proceeding or any arrangement or restructuring in anticipation or in lieu of any proceeding contemplated by this shall be applied, subject to applicable law, in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal, premium, if any, or interest, upon presentation of the several Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
Article V
Article V
Article V
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under ;
Section 6.07
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid upon the Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, on the Securities of such series in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, such payments to be made ratably to the Persons entitled thereto, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest; and
THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto, including the Company, provided that all sums due and owing to the Holders and the Trustee have been paid in full as required by this Indenture.
 
No Holder of any series of Securities shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture or any series of Securities, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless:
(a) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(b) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as trustee hereunder;
(c) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, fees and expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(d) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer (and, if requested, provision) of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
 
(e) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the affected series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture or any Security of any series to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture or any Security of any series, except in the manner provided in this Indenture and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the Holders (it being understood that the Trustee does not have an affirmative duty to ascertain whether or not such actions or forbearances are unduly prejudicial to such Holders).
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right based on the terms stated herein, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and (subject to ) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption or repurchase, on the Redemption Date or the repurchase date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Section 3.08
 
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case the Company, any other obligor on the Securities, the Trustee and the Holders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
 
No right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
 
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein.
 
Every right and remedy given by this or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Article V
 
The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of any series of Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee under this with respect to such series, provided that:
Article V
(a) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture (including, without limitation, ), expose the Trustee to personal liability or be unduly prejudicial to Holders not joining therein; and
Section 5.07
(b) subject to the provisions of Section 315 of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
 
Prior to the acceleration of the maturity of any series of the Securities, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities of any such series waive any past Default or Event of Default and its consequences, except a Default or Event of Default:
(a) in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security (which may only be waived with the consent of each Holder of Securities of such series affected); or
(b) in respect of a covenant or a provision hereof which under this Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Security of such series Outstanding affected by such modification or amendment.
Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and
 
that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant, but the provisions of this shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, any Security on or after the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
Section 5.14
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities contemplated herein or in the Securities or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
All rights, remedies and powers provided by this may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof does not violate any applicable provision of law in the premises, and all the provisions of this Indenture are intended to be subject to all applicable mandatory provisions of law which may be controlling in the premises and to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Indenture invalid, unenforceable or not entitled to be recorded, registered or filed under the provisions of any applicable law.
Article V
 
Subject to the provisions of Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through 315(d):
(a) if a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise thereof as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his or her own affairs;
 
(b) except during the continuance of a Default or an Event of Default:
(1) the Trustee need perform only those duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no covenants or obligations shall be implied in this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(2) in the absence of bad faith or willful misconduct on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions which by any provision hereof are required to be furnished to the Trustee, to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein);
(c) the Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(1) this  does not limit the effect of  of this ;
Subsection (c)
Subsection (b)
Section 6.01
(2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith, in accordance with a direction of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power confirmed upon the Trustee under this Indenture;
(d) no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it;
(e) whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to , ,  and  of this ; and
Subsections (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Section 6.01
(f) the Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money or assets received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Assets held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other assets except to the extent required by law.
 
Within 90 days after a Responsible Officer of the Trustee receives actual notice of the occurrence of any Default, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders and any other Persons entitled to receive reports pursuant to Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such Default hereunder actually known to the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as a trust committee of Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders.
 
Subject to the provisions of hereof and Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through 315(d):
Section 6.01
(a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon receipt by it of any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of Indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(c) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and any advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
(d) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(e) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion, rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture other than any liabilities arising out of the negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct of the Trustee;
(f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, approval, appraisal, bond, debenture, note, coupon, security or other paper or document unless requested in writing to do so by the Holders of
 
not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series then Outstanding; provided that, if the payment within a reasonable time to the Trustee of the costs, expenses or liabilities likely to be incurred by it in the making of such investigation is, in the opinion of the Trustee, not reasonably assured to the Trustee by the security afforded to it by the terms of this Indenture, the Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it against such expenses or liabilities as a condition to proceeding; the reasonable expenses of every such investigation so requested by the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Securities Outstanding of an affected series shall be paid by the Company or, if paid by the Trustee or any predecessor Trustee, shall be repaid by the Company upon demand; provided, further, the Trustee in its discretion may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may deem fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
(h) the Trustee shall not be required to take notice, and shall not be deemed to have notice, of any Default or Event of Default hereunder, except Events of Default described in  and  of hereof, unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall be notified specifically of the Default or Event of Default on a written instrument or document received by the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office by the Company or by the Holders of at least 10% of the aggregate principal amount of any Securities of any series then outstanding and affected and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture. In the absence of delivery of notice satisfying those requirements, the Trustee may assume conclusively that there is no Default or Event of Default, except as noted above;
Subsections (a)
(b)
Section 5.01
(i) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed by the Trustee to act hereunder;
(k) in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, punitive or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action; and
 
(l) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
 
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in any Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 to be supplied to the Company will be true and accurate subject to the qualifications set forth therein. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
 
The Trustee, any Paying Agent, Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities, with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent and, subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 310 and 311, may otherwise deal with the Company and receive, collect, hold and retain collections from the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not the Trustee, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
 
All moneys received by the Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds, except to the extent required by mandatory provisions of law. Except for funds or securities deposited with the Trustee pursuant to , the Trustee shall be required to invest all moneys received by the Trustee, until used or applied as herein provided, in Temporary Cash Investments in accordance with the written directions of the Company.
Article IV
In the event of a loss on the sale of such investments (after giving effect to any interest or other income thereon except to the extent theretofore paid to the Company), the Trustee shall have no responsibility in respect of such loss except that the Trustee shall notify the Company of the amount of such loss and the Company shall promptly pay such amount to the Trustee to be credited as part of the moneys originally invested.
 
The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, such compensation as agreed to in writing by the Company and the Trustee and reasonable compensation for all other services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust), and the Company covenants and agrees to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee upon its request for all reasonable fees, expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by or on behalf of the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture and as agreed upon in the fee agreement between the Trustee and the Company (including the reasonable compensation and the fees, expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all agents and other persons not regularly in its employ); except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct. The Company also covenants and agrees to indemnify the Trustee and its directors, officers, agents and employees and each predecessor Trustee (the "") for, and to hold them harmless against, any claim, loss, liability, damage, tax, assessment or other governmental charge (other than taxes applicable to the Trustee's compensation hereunder) or expense incurred without negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this Indenture or the trusts hereunder and its duties hereunder, including enforcement of this and also including any liability which the Indemnitees may incur as a result of failure to withhold, pay or report any tax, assessment, fine, penalty, damages or other governmental charge, and the costs, fees and expenses of defending itself against or investigating any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The obligations of the Company under this to compensate and indemnify the Indemnitees and each predecessor Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee for reasonable fees, expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute an additional obligation hereunder and shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee and each predecessor Trustee.
Indemnitees
Section 6.07
Section 6.07
The Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities as to all property and funds held by it hereunder for any amount owing it or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to this , except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities.
Section 6.07
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in , the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
Section 5.01(f)
 
The Trustee shall comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as trustee under Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and which shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, to the extent there is an institution eligible and willing to serve. If the Trustee does not have a Corporate Trust Office in The City of New York, the Trustee may appoint an agent in The City of New York reasonably acceptable to the Company to conduct any activities which the Trustee may be required under this Indenture to conduct in The City of New York. If such Trustee publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of Federal, state, territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this , the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this .
Section 6.09
Section 6.09
Article VI
 
(a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor trustee pursuant to this shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee under .
Article VI
Section 6.11
(b) The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may at any time resign by giving written notice thereof to the Company no later than 30 Business Days prior to the proposed date of resignation. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee by written instrument executed by authority of the Board of Directors of the Company, a copy of which shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and a copy to the successor trustee. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee, at the expense of the Company, or any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper, appoint and prescribe a successor trustee.
(c) The Trustee may be removed with respect to any particular series of Securities at any time for any cause or for no cause by an Act of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company. Upon receiving such Act of the Holders, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee by written instrument executed by authority of the Board of Directors of the Company, a copy of which shall be delivered to the removed Trustee and a copy to the successor trustee. If an instrument of acceptance by a successor trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the receipt of such Act of the Holders, the removed Trustee, at the expense of the Company, or any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, on behalf of
 
himself and all others similarly situated, may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper, appoint and prescribe a successor trustee.
(d) If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(b) after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months,
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
Section 6.09
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any case, (i) the Company by or pursuant to a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee, or (ii) subject to , the Holder of any Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee. Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
Section 5.14
(e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, the Company, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor trustee and shall comply with the applicable requirements of . If, within 60 days after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, the Company has not appointed a successor Trustee with respect to Securities of a series, a successor trustee shall be appointed by the Act of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders of the Securities and accepted appointment in the manner provided herein, the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, or the Holder of any Security who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, subject to , on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to Securities of a series.
Section 6.11
Section 5.14
(f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor trustee by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders of Securities as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor trustee and the address of its Corporate Trust Office or agent hereunder.
 
Every successor trustee appointed hereunder shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee as if originally named as Trustee hereunder; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or the successor trustee, upon payment of its charges pursuant to then unpaid, such retiring Trustee shall pay over to the successor trustee all moneys, Temporary Cash Investments and other property relating thereto at the time held by it hereunder and shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all such rights, powers, trusts and duties. Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor trustee all such rights and powers.
Section 6.07
No successor trustee with respect to the Securities shall accept appointment as provided in this unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be eligible to act as trustee under the provisions of Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and this and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and have a Corporate Trust Office or an agent selected in accordance with .
Section 6.11
Article VI
Section 6.09
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustee co-trustees of the same trust and that such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by an other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
 
Upon acceptance of appointment by any successor trustee as provided in this , the Company shall give notice thereof to the Holders of the Securities, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register. If the acceptance of appointment is substantially contemporaneous with the appointment, then the notice called for by the preceding sentence may be combined with the notice called for by . If the Company fails to give such notice within 10 days after acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be given at the expense of the Company.
Section 6.11
Section 6.10
 
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all of the corporate trust business of the Trustee (including the trust created by this Indenture) shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be eligible under Trust Indenture Act Section 310(a) and this and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and have a Corporate Trust Office or an agent selected in accordance with , without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.
Article VI
Section 6.09
In case at the time such successor to the Trustee shall succeed to the trusts created by this Indenture any of the Securities shall have been authenticated but not delivered, any such successor to the Trustee may adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee and deliver such Securities so authenticated; and, in case at that time any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated, any successor to the Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor trustee; and in all such cases such certificate shall have the full force which it is anywhere in the Securities or in this Indenture provided that the certificate of the Trustee shall have; provided that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
 
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or other obligor under the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Trust Indenture Act Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein, as qualified by Trust Indenture Act Section 311(b).
 
At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Any such appointment shall be evidenced by an instrument in writing signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, a copy of which instrument shall be promptly furnished to the Company. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company and, except as may otherwise be provided pursuant to , shall at all times be a bank or trust company or corporation organized and doing business and in good standing under the laws of the United States of America or of any State or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authorities. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this , the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. In case at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this .
Section 3.01
Section 6.14
Section 6.14
Section 6.14
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this , without the execution or filing of any paper or further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
Section 6.14
An Authenticating Agent for any series of Securities may at any time resign by giving written notice of resignation to the Trustee for such series and to the Company. The Trustee for any series of Securities may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice of termination to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case of any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this , the Trustee for such series may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve in the manner set forth in . Any successor
Section 6.14
Section 1.07
 
Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent herein. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this .
Section 6.14
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation including reimbursement of its reasonable expenses for its services under this .
Section 6.14
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this , the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to or in lieu of the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication substantially in the following form:
Section 6.14
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
(a) For the purpose of meeting any legal requirements of any jurisdiction in which the Company may at the time be located in connection with the enforcement of any right or the taking of any action on behalf of the Holders of any Securities issued hereunder, the Trustee shall have the power and may execute and deliver all instruments necessary to appoint one or more Persons to act as a co-trustee or co-trustees, or separate trustee or separate trustees, such powers, duties, obligations, rights and trusts as the Trustee may consider necessary or desirable. Each co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be required to meet the terms of eligibility as a trustee under . The Trustee shall promptly notify the Holders and the Company of the appointment of a co-trustee or separate trustee under this .
Section 6.09
Section 6.15
(b) Every separate trustee and co-trustee shall, to the extent permitted by law, be appointed and act subject to the following provisions and conditions:
(1) all rights, powers, duties and obligations conferred or imposed upon the Trustee shall be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Trustee and such separate trustee or co-trustee jointly (it being understood that such separate trustee or co-trustee is not authorized to act separately without the Trustee joining in such act), except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act or acts are to be performed the Trustee shall be incompetent or unqualified to perform such act or acts, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations shall be exercised and performed singly by such separate trustee or co-trustee, but solely at the direction of the Trustee;
 
(2) no trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of any other trustee hereunder;
(3) the Trustee may at any time accept the resignation of or remove any separate trustee or co-trustee;
(4) any notice, request or other writing given to the Trustee shall be deemed to have been given to each of the then separate trustees and co-trustees, as effectively as if given to each of them. Every instrument appointing any separate trustee or co-trustee shall refer to this Indenture and the conditions of this . Each separate trustee and co-trustee, upon its acceptance of the trusts conferred, shall be vested with the estates or property specified in its instrument of appointment, either jointly with the Trustee or separately, as may be provided therein, subject to all the provisions of this Indenture, specifically including every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct of, affecting the liability of, or affording protection or rights (including the rights to compensation, reimbursement and indemnification hereunder) to, the Trustee. Every such instrument shall be filed with the Trustee; and
Article VI
(5) any separate trustee or co-trustee may at any time constitute the Trustee its agent or attorney-in-fact with full power and authority, to the extent not prohibited by law, to do any lawful act under or in respect of this Indenture on its behalf and in its name for the purposes of enforcing any rights or taking any other action on behalf of the Holders of any Securities issued hereunder.
 
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
(a) semiannually, not more than 10 days after each Regular Record Date, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of such Regular Record Date; and
(b) at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request in writing, within 30 days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content to that in  hereof as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
Subsection (a)
provided, however, that if and so long as the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar, no such list need be furnished.
 
Holders may communicate pursuant to Trust Indenture Act Section 312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities, and the Trustee shall comply with Trust Indenture Act Section 312(b). The Company, the Trustee, the Security Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of Trust Indenture Act Section 312(c).
Further, every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee or any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with Trust Indenture Act Section 312, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Trust Indenture Act Section 312.
 
(a) Within 60 days after April 1 of each year commencing with the first April 1 after the issuance of Securities, the Trustee, if so required under the Trust Indenture Act, shall transmit by mail to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c), a brief report dated as of such April 1 in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(a). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in Trust Indenture Act Section 313(c), a brief report in accordance with and with respect to the matters required by Trust Indenture Act Section 313(b)(2).
(b) A copy of each report transmitted to Holders pursuant to this shall, at the time of such transmission, be mailed to the Company and filed with each stock exchange, if any, upon which the Securities are listed and also with the Commission. The Company will notify the Trustee promptly in writing if the Securities are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
Section 7.03
 
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission.
The Trustee shall be under no obligation to analyze or make any credit decision with respect to any financial statements or reports received by it hereunder, but shall hold such financial statements or reports solely for the benefit of and/or review by the holders of the Securities.
 
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee hereunder and under is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
Section 10.07
 
The Company will deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in compliance (without regard to periods of grace or notice requirements) with all conditions and covenants under this Indenture, and if the Company shall not be in compliance, specifying such non-compliance and the nature and status thereof of which such signers may have knowledge.
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Event of Default or an event which, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Event of Default or Default and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
If Securities of a series are issued with original issue discount, upon request of the Trustee, the Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods), if any, accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
In the event that the Company is required to pay additional interest to Holders of Securities of any series pursuant to a registration rights agreement, the Company will provide written notice (an "") to the Trustee of its obligation to pay additional interest no later than fifteen days prior to the proposed payment date for the additional interest, and the Additional Interest Notice shall set forth the amount of additional interest to be paid by the Company on such payment date. The Trustee shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder of Securities to determine the additional interest, or with respect to the nature, extent, or calculation of the amount of additional interest owed, or with respect to the method employed in such calculation of the additional interest.
Additional Interest Notice
 
 
The Company will not, in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions, consolidate, amalgamate, combine or merge with or into any other Person or, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person or group of Persons, or permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to enter into any such transaction or series of transactions, if such transaction or series of transactions, in the aggregate, would result in a sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or disposition of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a Consolidated basis to any other Person or group of Persons, unless at the time and after giving effect thereto:
(a) either (1) the Company will be the continuing corporation in the case of a merger, combination or consolidation or (2) the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or the resulting, surviving or transferee Person, if other than the Company (the ""), will be a corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any state thereof or the District of Columbia and such Person expressly assumes, by a supplemental indenture, in a form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture, including the payment of all amounts due on the Securities and the performance of the covenants under this Indenture and any supplemental indenture related to such Securities and in each case, the Securities and the Indenture will remain in full force and effect as so supplemented;
Successor Company
(b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction or series of transactions on a pro forma basis, including, without limitation, any Indebtedness Incurred or anticipated to be Incurred in connection with or in respect of such transaction or series of transactions, no Default or Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing and the Company will have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to that effect; and
(c) at the time of the transaction the Company or the Successor Company will have delivered, or caused to be delivered, to the Trustee, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each to the effect that such transaction or series of transactions, and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction or series of transactions to effectuate such assumption, such supplemental indenture in respect thereof, comply with this covenant and that all conditions precedent in the Indenture relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
If under the aforementioned circumstances, the Company's properties or assets become subject to a Lien not permitted by the Indenture, the Company will equally and ratably secure the Securities.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Restricted Subsidiary may consolidate, amalgamate or combine with or merge with or into or, directly or indirectly, sell, assign, convey, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its properties and assets to the Company or, subject to the condition set forth in  in the preceding sentence, to any other Restricted Subsidiary or any other Subsidiary that would, upon completion of such transactions, be a Restricted Subsidiary.
Subsection (b)
 
Upon any consolidation, amalgamation, combination or merger, or any sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, if any, in accordance with , the successor Person formed by such consolidation or amalgamation or into which the Company is merged or the successor Person to which such sale, assignment, conveyance, lease, transfer or other disposition is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture and the Securities with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein, in the Securities and the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under the Indenture and the Securities; provided that in the case of a transfer by lease, the predecessor shall not be released from the payment of principal and interest on the Securities.
Section 8.01
 
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company and any other obligor under the Securities when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto or agreements or other instruments with respect to the Indenture or any series of the Securities, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(a) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company pursuant to the provisions of and the assumption by such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities;
Article VIII
(b) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
(c) to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company by the Indenture, to add to the covenants of the Company such further covenants, restrictions, conditions or provisions for the protection of the Holders as the Board of Directors of the Company shall consider to be for the protection of the Holders, and to make the occurrence,
 
or the occurrence and continuance, of a default in any of such additional covenants, restrictions, conditions, or provisions a Default or an Event of Default under the Indenture (and if such Default or Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Default or Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) (provided, however, that with respect to any such additional restriction, condition, or provision, such supplemental indenture may provide for a period of grace after default, which may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other Defaults, may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such Default, may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such Default, or may limit the right of Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of any series of the Securities for which such additional Events of Default apply to waive such Default);
(d) to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision;
(e) to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of such indenture supplement, if applicable;
(f) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by and , which is not yet issued;
Sections 2.01
3.01
(g) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained in the Indenture, in any supplemental indenture or in the Securities of any series that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or therein, to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee, or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under the Indenture as shall not adversely affect the interests of any Holders;
(h) to modify or amend the Indenture in such a manner as to permit the qualification of the Indenture or any supplemental indenture under the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect;
(i) to comply with the provisions of ;
Article VIII
(j) to add guarantees with respect to any series of the Securities of any series or to secure any series of the Securities of any series;
(k) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder;
(l) to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to or ; provided that any such actions shall not adversely affect the interests of Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities in any material respect; and
Sections 4.02
4.03
 
(m) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment by a successor or separate Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and to add to or change any of the provisions of the Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the Indenture by more than one Trustee.
 
Except as permitted by or as provided pursuant to , with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series of Securities, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company when authorized by Board Resolutions, and the Trustee may (i) enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto or agreements in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, for the purpose of adding any provisions to, amending, modifying or changing in any manner, or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture with respect to such series, of any supplemental indenture with respect to such series or the Securities of such series (including but not limited to, for the purpose of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of such series under this Indenture with respect to such series or the Securities of such series) or (ii) waive compliance with any provision in the Indenture with respect to such series or the Securities of such series (other than waivers of past defaults covered by and waivers of covenants covered by ); provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected thereby:
Section 9.01
Section 3.01
Section 5.13
Section 10.08
(a) reduce the percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults;
(b) reduce the rate of or extend the time for payment of interest on the Securities of such series or reduce the amount of any payment of interest on the Securities of such series;
(c) reduce the principal of or change the Stated Maturity of the Securities of such series;
(d) reduce the premium payable upon the redemption of the Securities of such series or change the time at which the Securities of such series may or shall be redeemed;
(e) impair the right to institute suit for enforcement of any payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities of such series after the Stated Maturity thereof (or in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date);
(f) make the Securities of such series payable in a currency other than U.S. dollars;
 
(g) change the place where any Security or any premium or interest or any other amount is payable;
(h) modify any of the provisions of this or or , except to increase the percentage of such Outstanding Securities of such series required for such actions or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each such Security of such series affected thereby;
Section 9.02
Section 5.13
10.08
(i) amend or modify any of the provisions of this Indenture in any manner which subordinates the Securities of such series issued in right of payment to any other Indebtedness of the Company;
(j) release any security that may have been granted with respect to the Securities of such series; or
(k) make any change in the provisions of the Indenture relating to waivers of defaults or amendments that require unanimous consent.
Upon the written request of the Company, accompanied by a copy of Board Resolutions authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
Section 9.02
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of Holders with respect to such covenant or other provisions, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of any other series.
 
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture, agreement, instrument or waiver permitted by this or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to Trust Indenture Act Sections 315(a) through 315(d) and hereof) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and is the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to customary exceptions as to the enforceability thereof. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture, agreement or instrument which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Article IX
Section 6.01
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this , this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities of the series affected thereby theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
Article IX
 
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Article IX
 
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
Article IX
 
Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of , the Company shall give notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security of any series affected, in the manner provided for in , setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture. Any failure of the Company to mail such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
Section 9.02
Section 1.07
 
The Company shall duly and punctually pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on each of the series of Securities in accordance with the terms of the applicable series of the Securities and this Indenture. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to , payments for any Securities may be made by check or wire transfer.
Section 3.01
 
The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment. The Company also will maintain in The City of New
 
York an office or agency where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, redemption or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The office of the Trustee located at 45 Broadway, New York, New York 10006, will be such office or agency of the Company, unless the Company shall designate and maintain some other office or agency for one or more of such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location and any change in the location of any such offices or agencies. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required offices or agencies or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
The Company may from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies (in or outside of The City of New York) where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes, and may from time to time rescind such designation. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and any change in the location of any such office or agency.
The Trustee shall initially act as Paying Agent for the Securities.
 
If the Company or any of its Affiliates shall at any time act as Paying Agent, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided, and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
If the Company or any of its Affiliates is not acting as Paying Agent, the Company will, on or before 10:00 a.m. New York City time of each due date of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any of the Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum in same day funds sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of such action or any failure so to act.
If the Company is not acting as Paying Agent, the Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this , that such Paying Agent will:
Section 10.03
(a) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
 
(b) give the Trustee prompt notice of any Default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the making of any payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities;
(c) at any time during the continuance of any such Default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent; and
(d) acknowledge, accept and agree to comply in all aspects with the provisions of this Indenture relating to the duties, rights and liabilities of such Paying Agent.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Except as otherwise provided in the Securities of any series, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Security and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal and premium, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall promptly be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, shall at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in the NEW YORK TIMES and THE WALL STREET JOURNAL (national edition), and mail to each such Holder, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification, publication and mailing, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will promptly be repaid to the Company.
 
Subject to , the Company shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect the corporate existence and related rights and franchises (charter and statutory) of the Company and each Restricted Subsidiary; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise or the corporate existence of any such Restricted Subsidiary or any trademark, trade name or service mark of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary if the Board of Directors of the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer necessary or desirable in the conduct or the business of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole and that the loss thereof is not adverse in any material respect to the ability of the Company to perform its obligations hereunder.
Article VIII
 
(a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to, Incur any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, whether such shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or Principal Property is owned at the date of the Indenture or thereafter acquired, without in any such case effectively providing that all the Securities will be directly secured equally and ratably with such Lien.
(b) The foregoing restrictions will not apply to:
(1) the Incurrence of any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property acquired after the date of the Indenture (including acquisitions by way of merger or consolidation) by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary contemporaneously with such acquisition, or within 120 days thereafter, to secure or provide for the payment or financing of any part of the purchase price thereof, or the assumption of any Lien upon any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property acquired after the date of the Indenture existing at the time of such acquisition, or the acquisition of any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property subject to any Lien without the assumption thereof, provided that every such Lien referred to in this  shall attach only to the shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property so acquired and fixed improvements thereon;
Clause (1)
(2) any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property existing at the date of the Indenture or, with respect to any series of Securities, the date of the supplemental indenture which sets forth the terms of any such series of Securities or the Board Resolution under which any such series of Securities is created;
(3) any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary;
(4) any Lien on Principal Property being constructed or improved securing loans to finance such construction or improvements;
(5) any Lien on shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property Incurred in connection with the issuance of tax exempt government obligations; or
(6) any renewal of or substitution for any Lien permitted by any of the preceding  through , provided, in the case of a Lien permitted under ,  or , the debt secured is not increased nor the Lien extended to any additional assets.
Clauses (1)
(5)
Clause (1)
(2)
(4)
 
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may create or assume Liens in addition to those permitted by  through , and renew, extend or replace such Liens, provided that at the time of such creation, assumption, renewal, extension or replacement of such Lien, and after giving effect thereto, together with any sale and leaseback transactions permitted under hereof, Exempted Debt does not exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Clauses (1)
(6)
Section 10.06(b)
(d) For the purposes of this and , the giving of a guarantee that is secured by a Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property, and the creation of a Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property to secure Indebtedness that existed prior to the creation of such Lien, shall be deemed to involve the creation of Indebtedness in an amount equal to the principal amount guaranteed or secured by such Lien.
Section 10.05
Section 10.06
 
(a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, except to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, any Principal Property as an entirety, or any substantial portion thereof, with the intention of taking back a lease of such property, except a lease for a period of two years or less at the end of which it is intended that the use of such property by the lessee will be discontinued; provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may sell any such Principal Property and lease it back for a longer period:
(1) if the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to hereof, to create a mortgage on the property to be leased securing Funded Debt in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such sale and leaseback transaction without equally and ratably securing the outstanding Securities; or
Section 10.05
(2) if the Company promptly informs the Trustee of such transaction, the net proceeds of such transaction are at least equal to the Fair Market Value (as determined by Board Resolution) of such property, and the Company causes an amount equal to the net proceeds of the sale to be applied to the retirement, within 180 days after receipt of such proceeds, of Funded Debt Incurred or assumed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (including the Securities); provided further that, in lieu of applying all or any part of such net proceeds to such retirement, the Company may, within 75 days after such sale or transfer, deliver or cause to be delivered to the applicable trustee for cancellation either debentures or notes evidencing Funded Debt of the Company (which may include the Outstanding Securities) or of a Restricted Subsidiary previously authenticated and delivered by the applicable trustee, and not theretofore tendered for sinking fund purposes or called for a sinking fund or otherwise applied as a credit against an obligation to
 
redeem or retire such notes or debentures. If the Company so delivers debentures or notes to the applicable trustee and an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee, the amount of cash that the Company will be required to apply to the retirement of Funded Debt will be reduced by an amount equal to the aggregate of the then applicable optional redemption prices (not including any optional sinking fund redemption prices) of such debentures or notes, or if there are no such redemption prices, the principal amount of such debentures or notes, provided, that in the case of debentures or notes which provide for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of the maturity thereof, such amount of cash shall be reduced by the amount of principal of such debentures or notes that would be due and payable as of the date of such application upon a declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to the terms of the indenture pursuant to which such debentures or notes were issued; or
(3) if the Company, within 180 days after the sale or transfer, applies or causes a Restricted Subsidiary to apply an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or transfer or the Fair Market Value of the Principal Property (or portion thereof) so sold and leased back at the time of entering into such sale and leaseback transaction (in either case as determined by Board Resolution of the Company) to purchase other Principal Property having a Fair Market Value at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the Principal Property (or portion thereof) sold or transferred in such sale and leaseback transaction.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may enter into sale and leaseback transactions in addition to those permitted in  and without any obligation to retire any outstanding notes or other Funded Debt, provided that at the time of entering into such sale and leaseback transactions and after giving effect thereto, together with any Liens permitted under hereof, Exempted Debt does not exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Subsection (a)
Section 10.05(c)
 
Whether or not the Company is subject to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company will, to the extent permitted under the Exchange Act, file with the Commission the annual reports, quarterly reports and other documents which the Company would have been required to file with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) if the Company was so subject, such documents to be filed with the Commission on or prior to the date (the "") by which the Company would have been required so to file such documents if the Company was so subject. The Company will also in any event (x) within 15 days of each Required Filing Date (i) transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses appear in the security register, without cost to such Holders and (ii) file with the Trustee copies of the annual reports, quarterly reports and other documents which the Company would have been required to file with the Commission pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act if the Company were subject to either of such Sections and (y) if filing such documents by the Company with the Commission is not permitted under the Exchange Act, promptly upon written request and payment of the reasonable cost of duplication and delivery, supply copies of such documents to any prospective Holder at the Company's cost.
Required Filing Date
 
Except as specified pursuant to for Securities of any series, the Company may omit with respect to any series of Securities in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in , and and any other covenants specified pursuant to if, before or after the time for such compliance, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, waive such compliance with respect to such series in such instance with such covenant or provision, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 3.01
Sections 10.05
10.06
10.07
Section 3.01
 
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series, each series of Securities will be redeemable, as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time or from time to time, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the applicable series of Securities to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the applicable series of Securities discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus an amount of basis points specified in the supplemental indenture creating such series, plus accrued interest to but excluding the Redemption Date.
Section 3.01
 
Redemption of Securities at the election of the Company or otherwise, as permitted or required by any provision of this Indenture, shall be made in accordance with such provision and this except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series.
Article XI
Section 3.01
 
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Company Order and an Officers' Certificate. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, not less than 45 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee in writing of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of the applicable series of Securities to be redeemed except as otherwise specified as contemplated by for Securities of any series.
Section 3.01
 
If less than all of the applicable series of Securities are to be redeemed, the particular Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 nor less than 30 days prior to the Redemption Date. The Trustee shall select the Securities or portions thereof for redemption from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. The amounts to be redeemed shall be equal to $2,000 or any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof, unless provided otherwise in any supplemental indenture with respect to any particular series of Securities.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Security Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date unless a shorter period is specified by the terms of such series established pursuant to , to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at its address appearing in the Security Register.
Section 3.01
All notices of redemption shall state:
(a) the Redemption Date;
(b) the Redemption Price or the method by which such Redemption Price shall be determined;
(c) if less than all Outstanding Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the identification of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
(d) in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the principal amount of such Security to be redeemed and that after the Redemption Date upon surrender of such Security, new Security or Securities in the aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued;
(e) that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price;
 
(f) that on the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security or portion thereof to be redeemed, and that (unless the Company shall default in payment of the Redemption Price) interest thereon shall cease to accrue on and after said date;
(g) the names and addresses of the Paying Agent and the offices or agencies referred to in where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price;
Section 10.02
(h) the CUSIP number, if any, relating to such Securities; and
(i) the procedures that a Holder must follow to surrender the Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's written request delivered at least 15 days prior to the date such notice is to be given (unless a shorter period shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee), by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company. If the Company elects to give notice of redemption, it shall provide the Trustee with a certificate stating that such notice has been given in compliance with the requirements of this .
Section 11.05
The notice if mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice. In any case, failure to give such notice by mail or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Security.
 
On or prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company or any of its Affiliates is acting as Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in ) an amount of money in same day funds sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date or Special Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the applicable series of Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed. The Paying Agent shall promptly mail or deliver to Holders of Securities so redeemed payment in an amount equal to the Redemption Price of the Securities. Subject to , all money, if any, earned on funds held in trust by the Trustee or any Paying Agent shall be remitted to the Company.
Section 10.03
Section 6.01(f)
 
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities of any series so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities of such series (except as otherwise specified pursuant to ) shall cease to bear interest.
Section 3.01
 
Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such on the relevant Regular Record Dates or Special Record Dates according to the terms and the provisions of .
Section 3.08
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and premium, if any, shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate borne by such Security.
 
Any Security which is to be redeemed or purchased only in part shall be surrendered to the Paying Agent at the office or agency maintained for such purpose pursuant to (with, if the Company, the Security Registrar or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Security Registrar or the Trustee, as the case may be, duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered that is not redeemed or purchased.
Section 10.02
 
Unless otherwise specified pursuant to , this Indenture shall, upon Company Request, be discharged and shall cease to be of further effect (except as to surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities as expressly provided for herein) as to all Outstanding Securities of any series hereunder specified in such Company Request, and the Trustee, upon Company Request and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when:
Section 3.01
(a) either:
(1) all the Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) lost, stolen or destroyed Securities of such series that have been replaced or paid as provided in or (ii) all Securities of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust as provided in ) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
Section 3.07
Section 10.03
 
(2) all such Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (i) have become due and payable or, (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year; and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust an amount in United States dollars sufficient (in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee) to pay and discharge (without consideration of any reinvestment and after payment of all taxes or other charges and assessments in respect thereof payable by the Trustee) the entire Indebtedness on the Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including the principal of, premium, if any, and accrued interest on, the Securities of such series at such Maturity, Stated Maturity or Redemption Date;
(b) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
(c) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Independent Counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, each stating that (i) all conditions precedent herein relating to the satisfaction and discharge hereof have been complied with, (ii) no Default with respect to the Securities of such series has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit and (iii) such deposit does not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a Default under, the Indenture.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge hereof, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under and, if United States dollars shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to  of  of this , the obligations of the Trustee under and the last paragraph of shall survive.
Section 6.07
Clause (2)
Subsection (a)
Section 12.01
Section 12.02
Section 10.03
 
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph , all United States dollars deposited with the Trustee pursuant to shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, the Securities for whose payment such United States dollars have been deposited with the Trustee
Section 10.03
Section 12.01
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY OR A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN OF THE INDENTURE.
SECTION 3.06
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT AND ANY SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
 
 
No.:    
Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                     ($            ) United States dollars on                     , at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon from                     , or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually on                     and in each year, commencing                     at the rate of     % per annum, in United States dollars, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the                     or                     (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid, or duly provided for, and interest on such defaulted interest at the interest rate borne by the Securities, to the extent lawful, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or any Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice thereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in this Indenture.
Payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, this Security, and exchange or transfer of this Security, will be made at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York maintained for such purpose (which initially will be a corporate trust office of the Trustee located at 45 Broadway, New York, New York 10006), or at such other office or agency as may be maintained for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof or by the authenticating agent appointed as provided in the Indenture by manual signature of an authorized signer, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed by the manual or facsimile signature of its authorized officers.
 
 
This is one of the     % Notes due                     referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture (as such Indenture may be supplemented or amended).
 
Dated:            ,             
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its     % Notes due             (herein called the ""), limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $            , issued under and subject to the terms of an indenture (herein called the "") dated as of May 21, 2012, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
The Securities may be redeemed at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, upon not less than 30 and not more than 60 days' notice to the Holders thereof as provided in the Indenture, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate, plus             basis points, plus, in each case, accrued interest to but excluding the Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record of such Securities on relevant record dates to receive interest due on an interest payment date), if any.
If less than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, not more than 60 nor less than 30 days before the Redemption Date, the Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on a pro rata basis, by lot or by any other method the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
In the case of any redemption of Securities in accordance with the Indenture, interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities of record as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date or Special Record Date referred to on the face hereof. Securities (or portions thereof) for whose redemption and payment provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the Redemption Date.
In the event of redemption or repurchase of this Security in accordance with the Indenture in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
 
 
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire Indebtedness on the Securities and (b) certain covenants and Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions (including certain amendments permitted without the consent of any Holders and certain amendments which required the consent of all of the Holders) as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders under the Indenture and the Securities at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series (100% of the Holders of such series in certain circumstances) at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such affected series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and the Securities of such series and certain past Defaults and Events of Default under the Indenture and the Securities of such series and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company or any other obligor on the Securities (in the event such other obligor is obligated to make payments in respect of the Securities), which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities in certificated form are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a differing authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
Except as indicated in the Indenture, no service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of May 21, 2012 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), between REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC., a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the "Company") and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as trustee under the Base Indenture referred to below (hereinafter called the "Trustee").
WHEREAS, the Company entered into an Indenture dated as of May 21, 2012 (the "Base Indenture," all capitalized terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture and not otherwise defined being used as defined in the Base Indenture) (the Base Indenture and First Supplemental Indenture are hereinafter collectively called the "Indenture") with the Trustee, providing for the issuance of senior debt securities, unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such time or times, to be issued in one or more series and to have such other provisions as authorized by or pursuant to the authority granted in one or more resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company; and
WHEREAS, the Company proposes to issue $850,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.55% Notes due 2022 (such notes being referred to herein as the "Notes" and all references to Securities in the Base Indenture shall be deemed to refer also to the Notes unless the context otherwise provides); and
WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture provides that without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of any series issued under the Base Indenture, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture to, among other things, establish the form or terms of securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 3.01 thereof; and
WHEREAS, the entry into this First Supplemental Indenture by the parties hereto is in all respects authorized by the provisions of the Base Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make this First Supplemental Indenture, when executed and delivered by the Company, the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary have been done to make the Notes, when executed and delivered by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided for in the Indenture, the legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
The parties hereto mutually covenant and agree as follows:
SECTION 1. The Base Indenture is hereby amended solely with respect to the Notes, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, as follows:
 
"Independent Investment Banker" means either of Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as selected by the Company, and their respective successors, or if both of such firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) each of Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and a Primary Treasury Dealer (as defined herein) selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors, provided, however, that if either of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute for such firm another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (2) up to three additional Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Independent Investment Banker after consultation with the Company.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
 
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following after the date of issuance of the Notes:
1. the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
2. the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, it being agreed that an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for whom shares are held under an employee stock ownership, employee retirement, employee savings or similar plan and whose shares are voted in accordance with the instructions of such employee shall not be a member of a "group" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) solely because such employee's shares are held by a trustee under said plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of the Company's Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of its outstanding Voting Stock;
 
3. the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitutes, or is converted into or exchanged for, Voting Stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
4. during any period of 24 consecutive calendar months, the majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors shall no longer be composed of individuals (a) who were members of the Company's Board of Directors on the first day of such period or (b) whose election or nomination to the Company's Board of Directors was approved by individuals referred to in clause (a) above constituting, at the time of such election or nomination, at least a majority of the Company's Board of Directors or, if directors are nominated by a committee of the Company's Board of Directors, constituting at the time of such nomination, at least a majority of such committee; or
5. the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means, with respect to the Notes, the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "Trigger Period") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). If a Rating Agency is not providing a rating for the Notes at the commencement of any Trigger Period, the Notes will be deemed to have ceased to be rated Investment Grade by such Rating Agency during that Trigger Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company under the circumstances permitting the Company to select a replacement agency.
 
"Notes" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
"Rating Agency" means each of Moody's and S&P; provided, that if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside the Company's control, the Company may appoint another "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) under the Exchange Act as a replacement for such Rating Agency; provided, that the Company shall give notice of such appointment to the Trustee.
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
 
"Both Section 4.02 (defeasance) and Section 4.03 (covenant defeasance) shall apply to the Notes."
 
"Upon the Company's exercise of the option applicable to this Section 4.03 with respect to the Notes, the Company shall be released from its obligations under any covenant or provision contained or referred to in Sections 10.05, 10.06, 10.07 and 13.01, with respect to the Defeased Securities, on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 4.04 below are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"), and the Defeased Securities shall thereafter be deemed to be not "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder, and the Events of Default under Section 5.01(c), (d) and (e) shall cease to be in full force and effect with respect to the Notes. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the Defeased Securities, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or by reason of reference in any such Section to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 5.01(c), (d) and (e) but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Defeased Securities shall be unaffected thereby."
 
 
 
"(n) to add additional Securities of the same class and series in one or more tranches from time to time."
 
 
 
 
"(l) amend, change or modify the Company's obligation to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event in accordance with Section 13.01 after such Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred, including by amending, changing or modifying any definition related thereto."
 
"The aggregate principal amount of Notes which may be issued under this Indenture shall be unlimited and the Company may issue additional notes of the same class and series as the Notes (the "Additional Notes") in one or more tranches from time to time, without notice to or the consent of existing Holders of the Securities of any series, including the Notes. The Additional Notes shall have the same terms as all other Notes and all references in the Indenture shall be deemed to also refer to the Additional Notes. The Additional Notes shall vote as a class with all other Notes as to matters as to which such Notes have a vote."
 
 
 
 
In the case of each of clauses (1) and (2), accrued and unpaid interest will be payable to, but excluding, the redemption date.
 
 
Section 13.01. REPURCHASE AT OPTION OF HOLDERS UPON A CHANGE OF CONTROL
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Notes, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to Article XI of the Indenture, each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the "Change of Control Offer"), at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment"), subject to the rights of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
(b) Within 30 days following the date upon which the Change of Control Triggering Event occurred with respect to the Notes, or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company will be required to send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of Notes, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.
Such notice shall state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Repurchases of Notes under this Section 13.01 shall be made, at the option of the Holder thereof, upon
 
 
 
The Change of Control Repurchase Notice shall state:
 
 
 
 
, that if the Notes are not in certificated form, the Change of Control Repurchase Notice must comply with appropriate procedures of the Depositary.
provided, however
(c) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
(d) The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer with respect to the Notes if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for such an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all the Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
Section 13.02. COMPLIANCE WITH TENDER OFFER RULES
The Company shall comply in all material respects with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict."
 
SECTION 2. The Base Indenture is incorporated by reference in full into this First Supplemental Indenture, and all parties to this First Supplemental Indenture agree to be bound by the terms and provisions of the Base Indenture as supplemented and amended by this First Supplemental Indenture. The Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. All provisions included in this First Supplemental Indenture supersede any similar provisions included in the Base Indenture unless not permitted by law.
SECTION 3. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this First Supplemental Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
SECTION 4. All covenants and agreements in this First Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 5. In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions herein and therein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 6. Nothing in this First Supplemental Indenture, expressed or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, and the Holders of the Notes any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this First Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 7. This First Supplemental Indenture and each Note shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York and this First Supplemental Indenture and each such Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof.
 
SECTION 8. All terms used in this First Supplemental Indenture not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the Base Indenture shall have the meanings set forth therein.
SECTION 9. This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page hereto by facsimile or electronic transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this First Supplemental Indenture.
SECTION 10. The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this First Supplemental Indenture or the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Notes or the proceeds thereof.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
[THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITARY OR A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF CEDE & CO. OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.06 OF THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT AND ANY SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
1
 
 
 
 
 
Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to              or its registered assigns, the principal sum of                      ($            ) United States dollars [, or such greater or lesser amount as may from time to time be endorsed on the Schedule of Increases and Decreases of Interests in the Global Note attached hereto (but in no event may such amount exceed the aggregate principal amount of Notes authenticated pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Indenture referred to below and then Outstanding pursuant the terms of the Indenture)]
2
, on June 1, 2022, at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon from May 21, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year, commencing December 1, 2012 at the rate of 3.55% per annum, in United States dollars, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or any Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May 15 or November 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid, or duly provided for, and interest on such defaulted interest at the interest rate borne by the Securities, to the extent lawful, shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or any Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice thereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in this Indenture.
Payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on, this Security, and exchange or transfer of this Security, will be made at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York maintained for such purpose (which initially will be a corporate trust office of the Trustee located at 45 Broadway, New York, New York 10006), or at such other office or agency as may be maintained for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts;
 
 
,, that payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Security Register.
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof or by the authenticating agent appointed as provided in the Indenture by manual signature of an authorized signer, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed by the manual or facsimile signature of one of its authorized officers.
 
 
This is one of the 3.55% Notes due June 1, 2022 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated:                     
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 3.55% Notes due 2022 (herein called the "Securities"), limited (except as otherwise provided in the Indenture referred to below) in aggregate principal amount to $850,000,000, issued under and subject to the terms of an indenture (herein called the "Indenture") dated as of May 21, 2012, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012, between the Company and the Trustee to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
Prior to the date that is three months prior to their Stated Maturity, the Securities may be redeemed, as a whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time and from time to time at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon, discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate, plus 30 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest to the Redemption Date, if any (subject to the right of holders of record of such Securities on relevant record dates to receive interest due on an interest payment date). On or after the date that is three months prior to their Stated Maturity, the Securities may be redeemed in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, at any time and from time to time at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date, if any (subject to the right of holders of record of such Securities on relevant record dates to receive interest due on an interest payment date).
Any redemption may be made upon not less than 30 and not more than 60 days' notice to the Holders thereof as provided in the Indenture.
If less than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, not more than 60 nor less than 30 days before the Redemption Date, the Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed, by such method the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
In the case of any redemption of Securities in accordance with the Indenture, interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities of record as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date or Special Record Date referred to on the face hereof. Securities (or portions thereof) for whose redemption and payment provision is made in accordance with the Indenture shall cease to bear interest from and after the Redemption Date.
 
In the event of redemption or repurchase of this Security in accordance with the Indenture in part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event with respect to the Securities, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Securities pursuant to Article XI of the Indenture, each Holder of the Securities shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Holder's Security pursuant to Article XIII of the Indenture.
If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire Indebtedness on the Securities and (b) certain covenants and Defaults and Events of Default, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions (including certain amendments permitted without the consent of any Holders and certain amendments which required the consent of all of the Holders) as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders under the Indenture and the Securities at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding that are affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities (100% of the Holders in certain circumstances) at the time Outstanding that are affected, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and the Securities of such series and certain past Defaults and Events of Default under the Indenture and the Securities and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company or any other obligor on the Securities (in the event such other obligor is obligated to make payments in respect of the Securities), which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan,
 
The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities in certificated form are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a differing authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
Except as indicated in the Indenture, no service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE TO CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 13.01 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
Date:                     
 
 
 
The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
 
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
Republic Services, Inc.
18500 North Allied Way
Phoenix, AZ 85054
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel for Republic Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the offer and sale of $850,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.55% Notes due June 1, 2022 (the "Notes") as set forth in the Prospectus Supplement, dated May 14, 2012 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
The Notes will be issued under an Indenture, dated as of May 21, 2012, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture between the Company and the Trustee relating to the Notes dated as of May 21, 2012 (together, the "Indenture").
In connection with our opinion, we have examined: (a) the Prospectus Supplement; (b) the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, each as amended to date; (c) the Indenture; (d) the form of the Notes; and (e) such other proceedings, documents and records as we have deemed necessary to enable us to render this opinion.
In our examination of the above referenced documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents, certificates and instruments submitted to us as originals and the conformity with the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies. Also, we have relied as to certain factual matters on information obtained from public officials, officers of the Company and other sources believed by us to be responsible.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and the matters set forth herein, assuming that the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by, and represents the valid and binding obligation of, the Trustee, we are of the opinion that:
1. Upon the due execution, authentication, issuance and delivery of the Notes, and the receipt of the consideration therefor set forth in the Prospectus Supplement, the Notes will be valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms; except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or the application of equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Mayer Brown
LLP
Republic Services, Inc.
May 21, 2012
Page 2
 
We express no opinion concerning the contents of the Prospectus Supplement, other than as to the validity of the Notes. We express no opinion as to the applicability of, compliance with or effect of, the law of any jurisdiction other than United States Federal law, the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
We hereby consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement with respect to the matters stated therein, and to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are "experts" within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act or within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 


