FILE:RSG/RSG-8K-20121101162146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): November 1, 2012 (September 30, 2012)
Republic Services, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (480) 627-2700
Not Applicable
Former name or former address, if changed since last report
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
TABLE OF CONTENTS
2
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 1, 2012, Republic Services, Inc. (the Company) issued a press release containing information about the Companys results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012. A copy of this press release is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
3
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
4

        
EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS
REPUBLIC CONTACTS
Media Inquiries:     Darcie Brossart     (480) 718-6565
Investor Inquiries:     Ed Lang     (480) 627-7128
REPUBLIC SERVICES, INC.
REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
Phoenix, AZ, November 1, 2012
Republic Services, Inc. (NYSE: RSG) today reported net income of $152.7 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, for the three months ended September
 
30, 2012, versus $193.5 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the comparable 2011 period.
Republics net income for the three months ended September
 
30, 2012 and 2011 includes a number of charges and other expenses that impacted its results. A detail of these charges and other expenses is contained in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document. Excluding these items, net income for the three months ended September
 
30, 2012 and 2011 would have been $170.7 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, and $198.5 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, respectively.
Excluding certain charges and other expenses recorded during 2012 and 2011 as described in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion (adjusted EBITDA) for the three months ended September
 
30, 2012 would have been $572.5 million, or 28.0% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $648.7 million, or 30.7% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable 2011 period.
1
Revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2012 decreased to $2,046.9 million compared to $2,116.2 million for the comparable 2011 period. This decrease in revenue of 3.3% was made up of increases in core price of 1.0% and acquisitions, net of divestitures of 0.2% that were more than offset by decreases in fuel surcharges of 0.4%, volumes of 2.1% (0.5% of which is due to one less workday) and recycling commodities pricing of 2.0%.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, net income was $444.8 million, or $1.20 per diluted share, versus $398.2 million, or $1.05 per diluted share, for the comparable 2011 period.
Republics net income for the nine months ended September
 
30, 2012 and 2011 includes a number of charges, other expenses and benefits that impacted its results. A detail of these charges, other expenses and benefits is contained in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document. Excluding these items, net income for the nine months ended September
 
30, 2012 and 2011 would have been $530.0 million, or $1.44 per diluted share, and $543.1 million, or $1.43 per diluted share, respectively.
Excluding certain charges and other expenses recorded during 2012 and 2011 as described in the Reconciliation of Certain Non-GAAP Measures section of this document, adjusted EBITDA for the nine months ended September
 
30, 2012 would have been $1,754.0 million, or 28.8% as a percentage of revenue, compared to $1,898.7 million, or 30.8% as a percentage of revenue, for the comparable 2011 period.
Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 decreased to $6,089.9 million compared to $6,167.7 million for the comparable 2011 period. This decrease in revenue of 1.3% was made up of increases in core price of 0.7% and acquisitions, net of divestitures of 0.4% that were more than offset by decreases in volumes of 1.1% and recycling commodities pricing of 1.3%. Fuel surcharges were flat versus the comparable 2011 period.
Commenting on these results, Donald W. Slager, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, During the third quarter, we have seen improvement in our core price driven by higher resets in our index-based markets. We expect to maintain higher pricing through the end of the year and into 2013. In addition, we had positive volume growth in the collection line of business.
2
Company Restructures Field and Corporate Operations
In October 2012, we restructured our field and corporate operations to create a more efficient and competitive company. These changes include consolidating our field regions from four to three and our areas from 28 to 20, relocating office space, and reducing administrative staffing levels. We expect to record expenses of approximately $30 million with respect to this restructuring, approximately one-half of which will be incurred in the fourth quarter of 2012. We expect this restructuring will reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses by approximately $23 million annually.
Commenting on the restructuring, Mr. Slager said, We implemented this realignment to leverage our strong leadership team and organizational capabilities to refine how we operate. We have not made any changes to the span of control at our business units, keeping the appropriate leadership focus and decision making closest to our customers.
Updated 2012 Financial Guidance and Preliminary 2013 Outlook
Republic is updating its full year 2012 earnings guidance and issuing preliminary outlook for 2013.
3
Company Declares Quarterly Dividend
Republic also announced that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.235 per share for stockholders of record on January 2, 2013. The dividend will be paid on January 16, 2013.
About Republic
Republic is an industry leader in the U.S. non-hazardous solid waste industry. Through its subsidiaries, Republics collection companies, transfer stations, recycling centers and landfills focus on providing reliable environmental services and solutions for commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers.  Republic and its employees believe in protecting the planet and applying common sense solutions to customers waste and recycling challenges.
Republic participates in investor presentations and conferences throughout the year.  Interested parties can find a schedule of these conferences at republicservices.com by selecting Calendar on the investor relations page.  Audio and other presentations from earnings calls and investor conferences are also available on the investor relations page of the website.
4
5
6
 
7
You should read the following information in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. All amounts below are in millions and as a percentage of our revenue, except per share data.
REVENUE
The following table reflects our total revenue by line of business for the three and nine months ended September 30:
The following table reflects changes in our revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30:
COST OF OPERATIONS
Cost of operations includes labor and related benefits, which consists of salaries and wages, health and welfare benefits, incentive compensation and payroll taxes. It also includes transfer and disposal costs representing tipping fees paid to third party disposal facilities and transfer stations; maintenance and repairs relating to our vehicles, equipment and containers, including related labor and benefit costs; transportation and subcontractor costs, which include costs for independent haulers who transport our waste to disposal facilities and costs for local operators who provide waste handling services associated with our national accounts in markets outside our standard operating areas; fuel, which includes the direct cost of fuel used by our vehicles, net of fuel credits; disposal franchise fees and taxes consisting of landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; landfill operating costs, which includes financial assurance, leachate disposal and other landfill maintenance costs; risk management, which includes casualty insurance premiums and claims; cost of goods sold, which includes material costs paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; and other, which includes expenses such as facility operating costs, equipment rent and gains or losses on sale of assets used in our operations.
8
The following table summarizes the major components of our cost of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30:
The cost categories shown above may change from time to time and may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. As such, you should take care when comparing our cost of operations by cost component to that of other companies. Landfill operating costs for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 include a charge of $37.1 million recorded in response to conditions at a closed disposal facility in Missouri.
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, health and welfare benefits and incentive compensation for corporate and field general management, field support functions, sales force, accounting and finance, legal, management information systems and clerical and administrative departments. Other expenses include rent and office costs, fees for professional services provided by third parties, marketing, investor and community relations, directors and officers insurance, general employee relocation, travel, entertainment and bank charges, but excludes any such amounts recorded as restructuring charges.
The following table provides the components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the three and nine months ended September 30:
The cost categories shown above may change from time to time and may not be comparable to similarly titled categories used by other companies. As such, you should take care when comparing our selling, general and administrative expenses by cost component to that of other companies.
RECONCILIATION OF CERTAIN NON-GAAP MEASURES
Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Depletion, Amortization and Accretion
The following table calculates earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion (EBITDA), which is not a measure determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), for the three and nine months ended September 30:
9
We believe that presenting EBITDA is useful to investors because it provides important information concerning our operating performance exclusive of certain non-cash and other costs. EBITDA demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy, which includes reinvesting in existing capital assets to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment grade credit rating and minimizing debt, paying cash dividends, repurchasing our common stock, and maintaining and improving our market position through business optimization. This measure has limitations. Although depreciation, depletion, amortization and accretion are considered operating costs in accordance with GAAP, they represent the allocation of non-cash costs generally associated with long-lived assets acquired or constructed in prior years. Our definition of EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Earnings
Reported diluted earnings per share were $0.42 and $1.20 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 versus $0.52 and $1.05 for the comparable 2011 periods. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, we recorded a number of charges, other expenses and net (gain) loss on disposition of assets that impacted our EBITDA, pre-tax income, net income attributable to Republic Services, Inc. (Net Income  Republic) and diluted earnings per share.  These items primarily consist of the following:
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, we incurred costs related to the negotiation of certain collective bargaining agreements under which we have obligations to contribute to the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund (Central States). Additionally, during the three months ended September 30, 2012, we recorded a charge to earnings of approximately $31 million for our partial withdrawal from Central States.
10
We believe that presenting adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income attributable to Republic Services, Inc., and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which are not measures determined in accordance with GAAP, provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain items. We use these measures, and believe investors will find them helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. We have incurred comparable charges and costs in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted pre-tax income, adjusted net income attributable to Republic Services Inc., and adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Free Cash Flow
We define free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, as cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The following table calculates our free cash flow for the three and nine months ended September 30:
The following table calculates our adjusted free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, for the nine months ended September 30:
We believe that presenting adjusted free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after certain expenditures. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of adjusted free cash flow has material limitations. Adjusted free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or to which we have committed such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of adjusted free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Purchases of property and equipment as reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows and the free cash flow presented above represent amounts paid during the period for such expenditures. A reconciliation of property and equipment reflected on our consolidated statements of cash flows to property and equipment received during the period is as follows for the three and nine months ended September 30:
11
The adjustments noted above do not affect our net change in cash and cash equivalents as reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
As of September 30, 2012 and 2011, accounts receivable were $854.2 million and $901.3 million, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $44.8 million and $46.1 million, resulting in days sales outstanding of approximately 38 (or 24 net of deferred revenue) and 39 (or 26 net of deferred revenue), respectively.
CASH DIVIDENDS
In July 2012, we paid a cash dividend of $80.4 million to stockholders of record as of July 2, 2012. As of September 30, 2012, we recorded a dividend payable of $85.7 million to stockholders of record as of October 1, 2012, which was paid on October 15, 2012. In July 2012, our board of directors approved an increase in the regular quarterly dividend of approximately 7%. The quarterly dividend of $0.235 per share will be paid on January 16, 2013 to stockholders of record as of January 2, 2013.
STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
In August 2011, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to $750.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock through December 31, 2013. This authorization is in addition to the $400.0 million repurchase program authorized in November 2010. From November 2010 to September 30, 2012, we repurchased 24.7 million shares of our stock for $708.3 million at a weighted average cost per share of $28.65. During the three months ended September 30, 2012, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of our stock for $35.7 million at a weighted average cost per share of $28.32.
As of September 30, 2012, we had 364.6 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding.
RECONCILIATION OF UPDATED 2012 FINANCIAL GUIDANCE
Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share
The following is a summary of anticipated adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ending December 31, 2012 which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP:
This adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance assumes an effective tax rate of 33.5% for the year ending December 31, 2012.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted diluted earnings per share, which excludes loss on extinguishment of debt, negotiation and withdrawal costs  Central States, restructuring expenses and gain on disposition of assets and impairments, net, provides an understanding of operational activities before the financial impact of certain items. We use this measure, and believe investors will find it helpful, in understanding the ongoing performance of our operations separate from items that have a disproportionate impact on our results for a particular period. We have incurred comparable charges and costs in prior periods, and similar types of adjustments can reasonably be expected to be recorded in future periods. Our definition of adjusted diluted earnings per share may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
Adjusted Free Cash Flow
Our anticipated adjusted free cash flow for the year ending December 31, 2012, which is not a measure determined in accordance with GAAP, is calculated as follows:
12
We believe that presenting adjusted free cash flow provides useful information regarding our recurring cash provided by operating activities after certain expenditures. It also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy and is a key metric we use to determine compensation. The presentation of adjusted free cash flow has material limitations. Adjusted free cash flow does not represent our cash flow available for discretionary expenditures because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or to which we have committed such as debt service requirements and dividend payments. Our definition of adjusted free cash flow may not be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This document contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. Words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are:
13
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Refer to Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. Additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, or to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
14


