FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20041209161720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On December 3, 2004, the Organization and Executive Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Snap-on Incorporated (the "Company"), in consultation with those independent Directors who are not members of the Committee, approved the compensation for the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (the "Executive"). A summary of the compensation arrangement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Committee, in consultation with those independent Directors who are not members of the Committee, also approved the Company's entrance into an agreement with the Executive that provides that he will receive the payments and benefits set forth below if his employment is terminated by the Company without Cause (as defined in the agreement) prior to December 3, 2007.
The Company shall pay to the Executive an amount that is equal to the base salary that the Executive would have been paid during the Covered Period, using the rate that had been in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination, had the termination of employment not occurred (the "Salary Payment"). The Salary Payment shall be paid, in the sole discretion of the Company, in a lump sum payment within ten (10) business days following the Date of Termination or in substantially equal monthly payments over the Covered Period. The Company shall also pay to the Executive an annual incentive payment for each fiscal year of the Covered Period (the "Annual Incentive Payment"). The Annual Incentive Payment shall be (i) determined using the Executive's annual incentive opportunity immediately prior to the Date of Termination and the Executive's performance as assessed by the Board, and (ii) paid within sixty (60) days after the Annual Incentive Payment is calculated for the applicable fiscal year. During the Covered Period the Company shall also provide the Executive with continued health, disability, life and other insurance benefits substantially similar to the benefits provided during such period to the elected officers of the Company. The "Date of Termination" shall mean the date on which the termination of the Executive's employment is effective. The "Covered Period" shall mean the period of time beginning on the Date of Termination and ending on December 3, 2007. The complete agreement relating to the above provisions is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

CEO COMPENSATION
:
2004 Annual Incentive Plan
Target Opportunity is 100% of Base Salary and will be pro-rated for the number of months, or portions thereof, as an employee in 2004
   The CEO's 2005 base salary and participation in the 2005 Annual Incentive Plan will be approved by the Organization and Compensation Committee in consultation with those independent Directors who are not members of the Committee.
:
2005 Base Salary and Annual Incentive Plan
:
Long Term Incentive Plan
The CEO will not receive a grant under the Long Term Incentive Plan for 2004. However, future Long Term Incentive Plan opportunities shall be determined by the Organization and Executive Compensation Committee in accordance with the Company's annual review of market practices and the Company's compensation plans beginning in 2005.
The options will vest at the rate of one-half on the first anniversary of the effective date of the grant and one-half on the second anniversary of the effective date of the grant. The options will be incentive stock options to the extent permitted by law and the terms of such options shall be as set forth in the Company's standard form of stock option agreement. Any non-qualified stock options shall be transferable and remain exercisable for ten years after Retirement, subject to the earlier expiration of such options.
The CEO will not receive a grant of stock options as part of the normal annual grant cycle in 2005.
:
Benefits and Perquisites
The CEO will receive benefits and perquisites consistent with the Company's current practices such as use of the Company relocation program and executive physicals.
:
Agreement
The Company will enter into an agreement with the Executive that will provide that the Executive will receive the payments and benefits set forth below if his employment is terminated by the Company without Cause (as defined in the agreement) prior to December 3, 2007.
The Company shall pay to the Executive an amount that is equal to the base salary that the Executive would have been paid during the Covered Period, using the rate that had been in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination, had the termination of employment not occurred (the "Salary Payment"). The Salary Payment shall be paid, in the sole discretion of the Company, in a lump sum payment within ten (10) business days following the Date of Termination or in substantially equal monthly payments over the Covered Period. The Company shall also pay to the Executive an annual incentive payment for each fiscal year of the Covered Period (the "Annual Incentive Payment"). The Annual Incentive Payment shall be (i) determined using the Executive's annual incentive opportunity immediately prior to the Date of Termination and the Executive's performance as assessed by the Board, and (ii) paid within sixty (60) days after the Annual Incentive Payment is calculated for the applicable fiscal year. During the Covered Period the Company shall also provide the Executive with continued health, disability, life and other insurance benefits substantially similar to the benefits provided during such period to the elected officers of the Company. The "Date of Termination" shall mean the date on which the termination of the Executive's employment is effective. The "Covered Period" shall mean the period of time beginning on the Date of Termination and ending on December 3, 2007.

        THIS AGREEMENT by and between Snap-on Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Jack D. Michaels (the "Executive"), is effective as of December 3, 2004 (the "Effective Date").
        WHEREAS, the parties are executing this Agreement to evidence the parties' understanding with respect to the payments and benefits that will be provided to the Executive in the event that his employment is terminated by the Company without Cause during the Term.
        NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
        1.       
DEFINITIONS
        2.       .  If the Company terminates the Executive's employment during the Term for any reason other than Cause, then, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Executive shall receive the payments and benefits described in this Section 2. The Company shall pay to the Executive an amount that is equal to the base salary that the Executive would have been paid during the Covered Period, using the rate that had been in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination, had the termination of employment not occurred (the "Salary Payment"). The Salary Payment shall be paid, in the sole discretion of the Company, in a lump sum payment within ten (10) business days following the Date of Termination or in substantially equal monthly payments over the Covered Period. The Company shall also pay to the Executive an annual incentive payment for each fiscal year of the Covered Period (the "Annual Incentive Payment"). The Annual Incentive Payment shall be (i) determined using the Executive's annual incentive opportunity immediately prior to the Date of Termination and the Executive's performance as assessed by the Board and (ii) paid within sixty (60) days after the Annual Incentive Payment is calculated for the applicable fiscal year. During the Covered Period the Company shall also provide the Executive with continued health, disability, life and other insurance benefits substantially similar to the benefits provided during such period to the elected officers of the Company. The payments made hereunder shall not be included as compensation for purposes of calculating the Executive's retirement benefits from the Company.
OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OTHER THAN FOR CAUSE
        3.       .
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT
        4.       .  Nothing in this Agreement shall limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company. Vested benefits and other amounts that the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract of agreement with, the Company on or after the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with the terms of each such plan, policy, practice, program, contract or agreement, as the case may be, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.
NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS
        5.       .
MISCELLANEOUS
or to such other address as either party furnishes to the other in writing in accordance with this Section 5(c). Notices and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization of its Board, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.


