FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20061102171747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)     
November 1, 2006
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (
262) 656-5200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
Amendment to a Material Definitive Agreement
On October 20, 2006, Snap-on Incorporated ("Snap-on") and ProQuest Company ("ProQuest") entered into a Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") pursuant to which Snap-on will acquire the ProQuest Business Solutions business ("PQBS") of ProQuest for approximately $480 million in cash plus the assumption of $19 million of debt. A copy of the Purchase Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K filed by Snap-on on October 23, 2006.
Under the terms of the original Purchase Agreement, if ProQuest received an unsolicited proposal to purchase PQBS that it determined was reasonably likely to lead to an agreement that was more favorable than the terms of the agreement with Snap-on (a "Superior Proposal"), ProQuest would be permitted to negotiate terms with the proposing party, potentially leading to the payment to Snap-on of a $10.0 million break-up fee. ProQuest notified Snap-on that it had received a Superior Proposal and on November 1, 2006, Snap-on and ProQuest agreed to amend the original Purchase Agreement to eliminate the provisions which permitted ProQuest to consider additional proposals for the sale of PQBS in exchange for a new purchase price of $508 million in cash plus the assumption of approximately $19 million of debt. Snap-on still expects the transaction to close by the end of November, 2006.
This Form 8-K contains forward-looking information (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that is subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements include the use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future events.
Forward-Looking Statements
The forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause performance or actual results to differ materially from those expressed herein. Such risks and uncertainties include, among other things, Snap-on's and ProQuest's ability to complete all conditions to closing, including receipt of all regulatory approvals, and Snap-on's ability to successfully integrate the PQBS business.
The information contained in this Form 8-K is as of the date indicated. Snap-on does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Form 8-K as a result of new information or future events or developments.
 
           (a) None. (b) None. (c) None. (d) :
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on Incorporated has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO STOCK AND ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 1, 2006 (this ""), is by and between ProQuest Company, a Delaware corporation (""), and Snap-on Incorporated , a Delaware corporation (""). Seller and Buyer may be referred to in this Agreement individually as a "" or collectively as "."
Amendment
Seller
Buyer
Party
Parties
     WHEREAS, Seller and Buyer are parties to that certain Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of October 20, 2006 (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement; and
Agreement
     WHEREAS, the Parties wish to amend the Agreement pursuant to the terms herein set forth.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Parties agree as follows:
     The Agreement shall be hereby amended as follows:
     1.1 . Section 2.2 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following new Section 2.2:
Section 2.2
"2.2 . The aggregate purchase price for the Stock and the Foreign Assets shall be Five Hundred Eight Million Dollars ($508,000,000) (the ""), subject to adjustment pursuant to Article III below (the "")."
Purchase Price
Base Price
Purchase Price
     1.2 . Section 6.3 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and all references to Section 6.3 in the Agreement are hereby deleted.
Section 6.3
     1.3 . Section 11.1(d)(iii) is deleted in its entirety and all references to Section 11.1(d)(iii) in the Agreement are hereby deleted.
Section 11.1(d)(iii)
     1.4 . Section 11.3 of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and all references to Section 11.3 in the Agreement are hereby deleted.
Section 11.3
     1.5 . All defined terms used exclusively in the Sections of the Agreement that are deleted by this Amendment are hereby deleted.
Definitions
 
     2.1 . Except as otherwise provided herein, all of the terms, covenants and other provisions of the Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms. After the date hereof, all references to the Agreement shall refer to the Agreement (including the Exhibits and Disclosure Schedule attached thereto), as amended by this Amendment.
No Other Amendments; Reference
     2.2 . This Amendment, the Agreement and the Disclosure Schedule thereto and agreements referred to in the Agreement (including the Confidentiality Letter) set forth the entire understanding of the Parties as to matters not expressly excepted or excluded herein or in the Agreement.
Entire Agreement
     2.3 . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts (including by means of facsimile or scanned copy), each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     2.4 . This Amendment and each other document delivered pursuant to this Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State of Delaware. Each of the Parties agrees that if any dispute is not resolved by the Parties, it shall be resolved only in the Courts of the State of New York sitting in the County of New York or the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and the appellate courts having jurisdiction of appeals in such courts (collectively, the ""). In that context, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each of the Parties irrevocably and unconditionally (a) submits for itself and its property in any action relating to this Amendment or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of the State of New York sitting in the County of New York, the court of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and appellate courts having jurisdiction of appeals from any of the foregoing, and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action shall be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court; (b) consents that any such action may and shall be brought in such courts and waives any objection that it may now or thereafter have to the venue or jurisdiction of any such action in any such court or that such action was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same; (c) waives all right to trial by jury in any action (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Amendment or any document delivered pursuant to this Amendment, or its performance under or the enforcement of this Amendment or any document delivered pursuant to this Amendment; (d) agrees that service of process in any such action may be effected by mailing a copy of such process by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to such party at its address as provided in Section 12.1 of the Agreement; and (e) agrees that nothing in this Amendment or any document delivered pursuant to this Amendment shall affect the right to effect service of process in any other manner permitted by the Laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers
Proper Courts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.


