FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20070116171444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        On January 9, 2007, Snap-on Incorporated (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as representatives of the several underwriters listed therein (collectively, the "Underwriters") pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell and the Underwriters agreed to purchase, subject to and upon terms and conditions set forth therein, $300,000,000 in floating and fixed rate notes consisting of the following two series (collectively, the "Debt Securities"):
,
        The offering of the Debt Securities closed on January 12, 2007.
        In the ordinary course of their respective businesses, the Underwriters or their affiliates have performed and may in the future perform certain commercial banking, investment banking and advisory services for the Company from time to time for which they have received and may receive in the future customary fees and expenses.
        The Debt Securities were issued under the Indenture (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), in the form filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") as an exhibit to its Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-139863) (the "Registration Statement"), to which the offering of the Debt Securities relates, and officers' certificates establishing the terms and providing for the issuance of the Debt Securities. The Indenture provides for customary events of default and further provides that the Trustee or the holders of 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Debt Securities of any series may declare the Debt Securities of that series immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of any event of default after expiration of any applicable grace period. In the case of specified events of bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or reorganization, the principal amount of the Debt Securities and any accrued and unpaid interest on the Debt Securities automatically become due and payable. If a change of control repurchase event occurs, the Debt Securities are subject to repurchase by the Company at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Debt Securities repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Debt Securities repurchased to the date of purchase.
        Each series of the Debt Securities is subject to the Registration Statement that the Company filed with the SEC relating to the public offering from time to time of securities of the Company pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In connection with the Company filing with the SEC a definitive prospectus supplement, dated January 9, 2007, and prospectus, dated January 9, 2007, relating to the public offering of the Debt Securities, the Company is filing certain exhibits as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K. See "Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits."
        The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION COPY
New York, New York January 9, 2007
To the Representatives named in       Schedule I hereto of the several       Underwriters named in       Schedule II hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
        Snap-on Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule II hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, the principal amount of its securities identified in Schedule I hereto (the "Securities"), to be issued under an indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of January 8, 2007, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on Schedule II other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriters, and the terms Representatives and Underwriters shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 which were filed under the Exchange Act on or before the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the issue date of the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference herein to the terms "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the Exchange Act after the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the issue date of the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be, deemed to be incorporated therein by reference. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 20 hereof.
        1.       . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter as set forth below in this Section 1.
Representations and Warranties
        Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter.
        2.      . Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, and each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule II hereto.
Purchase and Sale
        3.      . Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made on the date and at the time specified in Schedule I hereto or at such time on such later date not more than three Business Days after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall reasonably designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 9 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters against payment by the several Underwriters through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to an account specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
Delivery and Payment
        4.       . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
        5.      . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Agreements of Company
        5A.       . Each Underwriter agrees with the Company that:
Agreements of Underwriters
        6.      . The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company contained herein as of the Execution Time and the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Underwriters
        References to the Final Prospectus in this paragraph (e) include any supplement thereto at the date of the letter.
        References to the Final Prospectus in this paragraph (f) include any supplement thereto at the date of the letter.
        If any of the conditions specified in this Section 6 shall not have been fulfilled when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, this Agreement and all obligations of the Underwriters hereunder may be canceled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representatives. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
        The documents required to be delivered by this Section 6 shall be delivered at the office of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York, on the Closing Date.
        7.      . If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Underwriters set forth in Section 6 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 10 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Underwriters, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters severally through [the Representatives] on demand for all expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
        8.      . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, the directors, officers, employees and agents of each Underwriter and each person who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the registration statement for the registration of the Securities as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or any other preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, the Final Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the information contained in the final term sheet required to be prepared and filed pursuant to Section 5(b) hereto and the Disclosure Package, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification and Contribution
provided
however
        9.      . If any one or more Underwriters shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Underwriter or Underwriters hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Underwriters shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule II hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Underwriters) the Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase; , , that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule II hereto, the remaining Underwriters shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Underwriters do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Underwriter or the Company. In the event of a default by any Underwriter as set forth in this Section 9, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Registration Statement and the Final Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter of its liability, if any, to the Company and any nondefaulting Underwriter for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by an Underwriter
provided
however
        10.      . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if prior to such time (i) trading in the Company's Common Stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by Federal or New York State authorities, or (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or other calamity or crisis, the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by any Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto after the Execution Time).
Termination
        11.      . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents or controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 7 and 8 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
        12.      . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to the Citigroup Global Markets Inc. General Counsel (fax no.: (212) 816-7912) and confirmed to the General Counsel, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York, 10013, Attention: General Counsel; and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (fax no.: (212)325-8278) and confirmed to Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, at Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, New York, 10013, attention: Transactions Advisory Group; and J.P. Morgan Securities, High Grade Syndicate Desk (fax no.: (212) 834-6081) and confirmed to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10017 Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk  8th floor; or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (262) 565-4762and confirmed to it at 2801 80 Street, Kenosha, Wisconsin, 53141, attention of the Legal Department.
Notices
th
        13.      . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
        14.      . The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters and any affiliate through which it may be acting, on the other, (b) the Underwriters are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company and (c) the Company's engagement of the Underwriters in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Company agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Underwriters has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Underwriters have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
No Fiduciary Duty
        15.      . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
        16.      . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
        17.      . The Company hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Waiver of Jury Trial
        18.      . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
        19.      . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
        20.      . The terms that follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
        If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Underwriters.
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date specified in Schedule I hereto.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
By: Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
By:        Name: Brian D. Bednarski       Title: Director
/s/ Brian D. Bednarski
By: Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
By:        Name: Helena Willner       Title: Director
/s/ Helena Willner
By: J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
By:        Name: Robert Bottamedi       Title: Vice President
/s/ Robert Bottamedi
For themselves and the other several Underwriters, if any, named in Schedule II to the foregoing Agreement.
Underwriting Agreement dated January 9, 2007
Registration Statement No. 333-139863
Representative(s): Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Title, Purchase Price and Brief Description of Securities:
Closing Date, Time and Location: January 12, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. at Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10022
Type of Offering: Non-delayed
Date referred to in Section 5(i) after which the Company may offer or sell debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company without the consent of the Representative(s): February 12, 2007
Schedule of Free Writing Prospectuses included in the Disclosure Package
None.
The security ratings above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the securities offered hereby. The ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Each of the security ratings above should be evaluated independently of any other security rating.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and the other documents that the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll-free at 1-877-858-5407, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC at 1-800-221-1037 or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at 1-212-834-4533.
www.sec.gov
The security ratings above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the securities offered hereby. The ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Each of the security ratings above should be evaluated independently of any other security rating.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and the other documents that the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll-free at 1-877-858-5407, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC at 1-800-221-1037 or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at 1-212-834-4533.
www.sec.gov

Exhibit 4.1
        Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture dated as of January 8, 2007 (the ""), between Snap-on Incorporated (the "") and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, the undersigned on behalf of the Company and in their respective capacities indicated, hereby certify that we have examined resolutions duly adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company on November 2, 2006 and a Consent Action of Subcommittee of Snap-on Incorporated dated as of January 4, 2007. Acting pursuant thereto, the undersigned hereby establish a series of Debt Securities (the "") by means of this Officers' Certificate, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of the Indenture:
Indenture
Company
Floating Rate Notes
        Capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture are used herein as so defined.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Officers' Certificate as of the date first set forth above.
Officers' Certificate Floating Rate Notes
        
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of the Depository to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of the nominee of the Depository or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to the nominee of the Depository or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, the nominee of the Depository, has an interest herein.
CUSIP 833034AD3
        SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assignees, the principal sum of One Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($150,000,000) on January 12, 2010, and to pay interest thereon from January 12, 2007, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined below) to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on January 12, April 12, July 12 and October 12 of each year (each, an ""), commencing April 12, 2007 (in each case excluding the Interest Payment Date or maturity date, as the case may be), at a floating rate of interest until the principal hereof becomes due and payable, and at such rate on any overdue principal and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) on any overdue installment of interest. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Floating Rate Note Due 2010 (this "," and all of the Notes collectively referred to herein as the "") (or one or more Predecessor Debt Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the fifteenth calendar day prior to the Interest Payment Date (whether or not a Business Day); , , that interest payable on the Interest Payment Date occurring at maturity will be paid to the person to whom principal shall be payable. Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date by virtue of his having been such Holder, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Debt Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Company
Interest Payment Date
Note
Notes
provided
however
The interest rate on the Notes for the interest period beginning the date of this Note and ending on the first Interest Reset Date (as defined below) will be equal to the three-month London interbank offer rate (""), determined in the manner set forth below, plus thirteen (13) basis points. The interest rate on the Notes for each subsequent interest period will be reset quarterly on each Interest Payment Date (an ""), and the Notes will bear interest at an annual rate (computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a 360-day year) equal to LIBOR, determined in the manner set forth below, plus thirteen (13) basis points.
LIBOR
Interest Reset Date
The interest rate in effect for the Notes on each day will be (a) if that day is an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate determined as of the Determination Date (as defined below) immediately preceding such Interest Reset Date or (b) if that day is not an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate determined as of the Determination Date immediately preceding the most recent Interest Reset Date. The "" will be the second London Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Interest Reset Date.
Determination Date
LIBOR will be determined by the calculation agent as of the applicable Determination Date in accordance with the following provisions:
If the date of maturity of the Notes or any Redemption Date (as defined below) falls on a day that is not a LIBOR Business Day, the related payment of principal and interest will be made on the next LIBOR Business Day as if it were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amounts so payable for the period from and after such date to the next LIBOR Business Day. If any Interest Reset Date or Interest Payment Date (other than at the date of maturity) would otherwise be a day that is not a LIBOR Business Day, that Interest Reset Date and Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next date that is a LIBOR Business Day, except that if such LIBOR Business Day is in the next calendar month, such Interest Reset Date and Interest Payment Date (other than at the date of maturity) shall be the immediately preceding LIBOR Business Day.
"" means any day other than Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies in the City of New York are required or authorized to close and that is also a London Business Day.
LIBOR Business Day
"" means any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
London Business Day
        Payments of interest will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds. Principal and any premium and interest payable at Maturity will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of such Note at the office of a paying agent in The City of New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate.
        Unless the certificate of authentication herein has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
        This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of January 8, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "," which term includes any successor Trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Debt Securities and of the terms upon which the Debt Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof limited in aggregate principal amount to $150,000,000, except that the Company may, without the consent of the Holders, "reopen" the series and issue more notes that have the same ranking, interest rate, maturity date and other terms as this Note.
Debt Securities
Indenture
Trustee
        All or a portion of the Notes may be redeemed by the Company at any time or from time to time after January 14, 2008. The price payable for the Notes to be redeemed (the "") on the date of redemption (each, a "") will be equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date plus accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes being redeemed to the Redemption Date. The principal amount of the Notes called for redemption shall become due on the Redemption Date. Holders of Notes to be redeemed will receive notice thereof by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If fewer than all of the Notes that are not represented by a Global Debt Security are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select, not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, the particular Notes or portions thereof for redemption from the outstanding Notes not previously called by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. If less than all of the principal amount of Notes represented by a Global Debt Security is to be redeemed, the Depository shall, in its sole discretion, select by lot the Notes represented by such Global Debt Security to be redeemed.
Redemption Price
Redemption Date
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest payable on the principal amount of Notes being redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date according to this Note and the Indenture.
        If a change of control repurchase event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised the right to redeem the Notes as described above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000) of that Holder's notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following any change of control repurchase event or, at the Company's option, prior to any change of control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the change of control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the change of control repurchase event and offering to repurchase Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the change of control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the change of control repurchase event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any other securities laws and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a change of control repurchase event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the change of control repurchase event provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the change of control repurchase event provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflict.
        On the change of control repurchase event payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful: (1) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Company's offer; (2) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes being purchased by the Company.
        The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000.
provided
        The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control repurchase event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
        For purposes of the foregoing change of control repurchase event provisions, the following definitions are applicable:
        "" means the Notes are rated below investment grade (as defined below) by both rating agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice (including, without limitation, any filing or report made in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any press release or public announcement made by the Company, the "") of an arrangement that could result in a change of control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a change of control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the rating agencies); that a below investment grade rating event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular change of control (and thus shall not be deemed a below investment grade rating event for purposes of the definition of change of control repurchase event) if the rating agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Company's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable change of control (whether or not the applicable change of control shall have occurred at the time of the below investment grade rating event).
below investment grade rating event
public notice
provided
        "" means the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's voting stock (defined below), measured by voting power rather than number of shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a change of control if (1) the Company becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction.
change of control
        "" means the occurrence of both a change of control and a below investment grade rating event.
change of control repurchase event
        "" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency (defined below) or rating agencies selected by the Company.
investment grade
        "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
        "" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the board of directors of the Company) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
rating agency
        "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
S&P
        "" of any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
voting stock
        The Company shall have no obligation to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision.
        If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
        With the consent of the Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Debt Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, the Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing the provisions of the Indenture or any supplement thereto or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities of each series under the Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall (a) extend the time or terms of payment of the principal at maturity of, or the interest on, any such series of Debt Securities, or reduce principal or premium or the rate of interest, without the consent of the Holder thereof, or (b) without the consent of all of the Holders of any series of Debt Securities then outstanding, reduce the percentage of Debt Securities of any such series, the Holders of which are required to consent (i) to any such supplemental indenture, (ii) to rescind and annul a declaration that the Debt Securities of any series are due and payable as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, (iii) to waive any past Event of Default under the Indenture and its consequences and (iv) to waive compliance with certain other provisions contained in the Indenture.
provided
however
        The Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture without the consent of the Holders for limited purposes specified in the Indenture.
        The Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive any past default or Event of Default under the Indenture and its consequences except a default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes.
        Holders of Notes may not enforce their rights pursuant to the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
        The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of U.S.$1,000 and any integral multiple of U.S.$1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes that are of other authorized denominations.
        Notes to be exchanged shall be surrendered at any office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Notes which the Holder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Note at any such office or agency, the Company shall execute and register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Note for an equal aggregate amount. Registration or registration of transfer of any Note by the Debt Security Registrar (initially U.S. Bank National Association) in the registry books maintained by such Debt Security Registrar in The City of New York, New York, and delivery of such Note, duly authenticated, shall be deemed to complete the registration or registration of transfer of such Note.
        No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name a Note is registered as the owner for all purposes whether or not such Note be overdue and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
        Certain of the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to the Notes may be terminated if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or eligible instruments sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all of the Notes, as described in the Indenture.
        This Note is in the form of a Global Security as provided in the Indenture. If at any time the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Note or if at any time the Depository for the Notes shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall appoint a successor Depository with respect to this Note. If a successor Depository for this Note is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will issue Notes in definitive form in exchange for the Global Security representing Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Note in exchange for this Note.
        No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, any supplemental indenture, or of any Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect thereof shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any Subsidiary or of any predecessor or successor Person, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liabilities being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
        The Notes are subject to defeasance at the option of the Company as provided in the Indenture.
        All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Snap-on Incorporated Floating Rate Note Due 2010
        This is one of the Debt Securities of the series designated herein issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: January 12, 2007
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as Trustee By: __________________________________________       Authorized Officer
Snap-on Incorporated Floating Rate Note Due 2010
        The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
        FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing _________________________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT IN EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER.

Exhibit 4.2
        Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture dated as of January 8, 2007 (the ""), between Snap-on Incorporated (the "") and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, the undersigned on behalf of the Company and in their respective capacities indicated, hereby certify that we have examined resolutions duly adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company on November 2, 2006 and a Consent Action of Subcommittee of Snap-on Incorporated dated as of January 4, 2007. Acting pursuant thereto, the undersigned hereby establish a series of Debt Securities (the "") by means of this Officers' Certificate, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of the Indenture:
Indenture
Company
Fixed Rate Notes
        Capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture are used herein as so defined.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Officers' Certificate as of the date first set forth above.
Officers' Certificate Fixed Rate Notes
        
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of the Depository to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of the nominee of the Depository or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to the nominee of the Depository or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, the nominee of the Depository, has an interest herein.
CUSIP 833034AE1
        SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assignees, the principal sum of One Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($150,000,000) on January 15, 2017, and to pay interest thereon from January 12, 2007, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined below) to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year (each, an ""), commencing July 15, 2007 (in each case excluding the Interest Payment Date or maturity date, as the case may be), at the rate of 5.500% per annum, until the principal hereof becomes due and payable, and at such rate on any overdue principal and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) on any overdue installment of interest. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this 5.500% Note Due 2017 (this "," and all of the Notes collectively referred to herein as the "") (or one or more Predecessor Debt Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date; , , that interest payable on the Interest Payment Date occurring at maturity will be paid to the person to whom principal shall be payable. Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date by virtue of his having been such Holder, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Debt Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. If any Interest Payment Date, any Redemption Date (as defined below) or the date of maturity of the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then the payment to be made on such date will be made on the next Business Day without additional interest and with the same effect as if it were made on the originally scheduled date.
Company
Interest Payment Date
Note
Notes
provided
however
        Payments of interest will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds. Principal and any premium and interest payable at Maturity will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of such Note at the office of a paying agent in The City of New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate.
        Unless the certificate of authentication herein has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
        This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of January 8, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "," which term includes any successor Trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Debt Securities and of the terms upon which the Debt Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof limited in aggregate principal amount to $150,000,000, except that the Company may, without the consent of the Holders, "reopen" the series and issue more notes that have the same ranking, interest rate, maturity date and other terms as this Note.
Debt Securities
Indenture
Trustee
        All or a portion of the Notes may be redeemed by the Company at any time or from time to time. The price payable for the Notes to be redeemed (the "") on the date of redemption (each, a "") will be equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes being redeemed on that Redemption Date (not including any portion of any payments of interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 15 basis points, plus in either of case (i) or (ii) above, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes being redeemed to the Redemption Date. The principal amount of the Notes called for redemption shall become due on the Redemption Date. Holders of Notes to be redeemed will receive notice thereof by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If fewer than all of the Notes that are not represented by a Global Debt Security are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select, not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, the particular Notes or portions thereof for redemption from the outstanding Notes not previously called by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. If less than all of the principal amount of Notes represented by a Global Debt Security is to be redeemed, the Depository shall, in its sole discretion, select by lot the Notes represented by such Global Debt Security to be redeemed.
Redemption Price
Redemption Date
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest payable on the principal amount of Notes being redeemed that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date according to this Note and the Indenture.
        For purposes of determining the Redemption Price, the following definitions are applicable:
        "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
        "" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
        "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three (3) such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations, or (C) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
        "" means (A) Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC or J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers (as defined below)) and their respective successors, , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (B) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
Primary Treasury Dealer
        "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation
        If a change of control repurchase event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised the right to redeem the Notes as described above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in integral multiples of $1,000) of that Holder's notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of purchase. Within 30 days following any change of control repurchase event or, at the Company's option, prior to any change of control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the change of control, the Company will mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the change of control repurchase event and offering to repurchase Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the change of control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the change of control repurchase event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice. The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any other securities laws and regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a change of control repurchase event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the change of control repurchase event provisions of the Notes, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under the change of control repurchase event provisions of the Notes by virtue of such conflict.
        On the change of control repurchase event payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful: (1) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Company's offer; (2) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes being purchased by the Company.
        The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000.
provided
        The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control repurchase event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
        For purposes of the foregoing change of control repurchase event provisions, the following definitions are applicable:
        "" means the Notes are rated below investment grade (as defined below) by both rating agencies (as defined below) on any date from the date of the public notice (including, without limitation, any filing or report made in accordance with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any press release or public announcement made by the Company, the "") of an arrangement that could result in a change of control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a change of control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by either of the rating agencies); that a below investment grade rating event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular change of control (and thus shall not be deemed a below investment grade rating event for purposes of the definition of change of control repurchase event) if the rating agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Company's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable change of control (whether or not the applicable change of control shall have occurred at the time of the below investment grade rating event).
below investment grade rating event
public notice
provided
        "" means the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's voting stock (defined below), measured by voting power rather than number of shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a change of control if (1) the Company becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2) the holders of the voting stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's voting stock immediately prior to that transaction.
change of control
        "" means the occurrence of both a change of control and a below investment grade rating event.
change of control repurchase event
        "" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's); a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P); and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency (defined below) or rating agencies selected by the Company.
investment grade
        " means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
"Moody's
        "" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the board of directors of the Company) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both, as the case may be.
rating agency
        "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
S&P
        "" of any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of any date means the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
voting stock
        The Company shall have no obligation to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision.
        If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
        With the consent of the Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Debt Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, the Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing the provisions of the Indenture or any supplement thereto or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Debt Securities of each series under the Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall (a) extend the time or terms of payment of the principal at maturity of, or the interest on, any such series of Debt Securities, or reduce principal or premium or the rate of interest, without the consent of the Holder thereof, or (b) without the consent of all of the Holders of any series of Debt Securities then outstanding, reduce the percentage of Debt Securities of any such series, the Holders of which are required to consent (i) to any such supplemental indenture, (ii) to rescind and annul a declaration that the Debt Securities of any series are due and payable as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, (iii) to waive any past Event of Default under the Indenture and its consequences and (iv) to waive compliance with certain other provisions contained in the Indenture.
provided
however
        The Company and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture without the consent of the Holders for limited purposes specified in the Indenture.
        The Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive any past default or Event of Default under the Indenture and its consequences except a default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes.
        Holders of Notes may not enforce their rights pursuant to the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
        The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of U.S.$1,000 and any integral multiple of U.S.$1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes that are of other authorized denominations.
        Notes to be exchanged shall be surrendered at any office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Notes which the Holder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Note at any such office or agency, the Company shall execute and register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Note for an equal aggregate amount. Registration or registration of transfer of any Note by the Debt Security Registrar (initially U.S. Bank National Association) in the registry books maintained by such Debt Security Registrar in The City of New York, New York, and delivery of such Note, duly authenticated, shall be deemed to complete the registration or registration of transfer of such Note.
        No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name a Note is registered as the owner for all purposes whether or not such Note be overdue and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
        Certain of the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to the Notes may be terminated if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or eligible instruments sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all of the Notes, as described in the Indenture.
        This Note is in the form of a Global Security as provided in the Indenture. If at any time the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Note or if at any time the Depository for the Notes shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall appoint a successor Depository with respect to this Note. If a successor Depository for this Note is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will issue Notes in definitive form in exchange for the Global Security representing Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Note in exchange for this Note.
        No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, any supplemental indenture, or of any Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect thereof shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any Subsidiary or of any predecessor or successor Person, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liabilities being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
        The Notes are subject to defeasance at the option of the Company as provided in the Indenture.
        All terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Snap-on Incorporated 5.500% Note due 2017
        This is one of the Debt Securities of the series designated herein issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
Dated: January 12, 2007
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as Trustee By:______________________________       Authorized Officer
Snap-on Incorporated 5.500% Note due 2017
        The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
        FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing _________________________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT IN EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER.


