FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20070109084957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)     
November 28, 2006
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:     
(262) 656-5200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits SIGNATURES Exhibit Index   EXHIBIT 2.1   EXHIBIT 2.2   EXHIBIT 23.1   EXHIBIT 99.1   EXHIBIT 99.2   EXHIBIT 99.3
This form 8-K/A is filed as an amendment to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Snap-on Incorporated under Items 2.01, 2.03 and 9.01 on December 4, 2006. This amendment is being filed to include the financial information required under Item 9.01, and it amends and restates Item 9.01 in its entirety.
      
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on Incorporated has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit
Number

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 2-53663, 2-53578, 33-7471, 33-22417, 33-37924, 33-39660, 33-57898, 33-58939, 33-58943, 333-21277, 333-21285, 333-41359 and 333-62098) of Snap-on Incorporated of our report dated October 13, 2006, with respect to the combined balance sheet of ProQuest Business Solutions, Inc. and related entities as of December 31, 2005, and the related combined statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the year then ended, which report appears in the Form 8-K of Snap-on Incorporated dated January 9, 2007.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Detroit, Michigan
January 9, 2007

The Board of Directors ProQuest Company:
We have audited the accompanying combined balance sheet of ProQuest Business Solutions, Inc., and related entities as of December 31, 2005, and the related combined statements of operations, shareholder's equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the year then ended. These combined financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ProQuest Business Solutions, Inc. and related entities as of December 31, 2005 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Detroit, Michigan October 13, 2006


EXHIBIT 99.3
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are based on the historical financial statements of Snap-on Incorporated ("Snap-on" or the "company") and the ProQuest Business Solutions and related entities ("PQBS") segment of ProQuest Company, after giving effect to Snap-on's acquisition of PQBS (the "Acquisition") on November 28, 2006. The accompanying pro forma adjustments also reflect the impacts of unsecured commercial paper issued by Snap-on (the "Commercial Paper") to fund a portion of the Acquisition purchase price, as well as the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006, is presented as if the Acquisition and Commercial Paper issuances occurred on September 30, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of earnings of Snap-on and PQBS for the year ended December 31, 2005, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, are presented as if the Acquisition and Commercial Paper issuances had taken place on January 2, 2005 (beginning of fiscal 2005).
The Acquisition's preliminary purchase price allocation in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements is based upon the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities and is subject to change upon the completion of the purchase accounting valuation and the determination of the working capital adjustment. The preliminary fair values of certain assets and liabilities have been determined with the assistance of a third-party valuation firm. We expect to finalize purchase accounting within twelve months of the Acquisition date.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Snap-on that would have been reported had the Acquisition and Commercial Paper issuances been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or financial position of Snap-on. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not reflect any incremental revenues, operating efficiencies or cost savings that Snap-on may achieve with respect to the consolidated companies. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Snap-on included in its periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K filed February 21, 2006, and in its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, along with the combined financial statements and accompanying notes of PQBS included in the PQBS 2005 audited combined financial statements and in the PQBS unaudited combined financial statements for the 39-week periods ended September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005, filed herewith.
1. Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006, and the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, and for the year ended December 31, 2005, are based on the historical financial statements of Snap-on Incorporated ("Snap-on" or the "company") and the ProQuest Business Solutions and related entities ("PQBS") segment of ProQuest Company, after giving effect to Snap-on's acquisition of PQBS (the "Acquisition") on November 28, 2006. The accompanying pro forma adjustments also reflect the impacts of unsecured commercial paper issued by Snap-on (the "Commercial Paper") to fund a portion of the Acquisition, as well as the assumptions and adjustments described in the notes herein. PQBS and Snap-on have the same fiscal and quarterly period ends. Certain historical balances have been reclassified to conform to the pro forma condensed consolidated presentation.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006, is presented as if the Acquisition and Commercial Paper issuances occurred on September 30, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of earnings of Snap-on and PQBS for the year ended December 31, 2005, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, are presented as if the Acquisition and Commercial Paper issuances had taken place on January 2, 2005 (beginning of fiscal 2005).
The Acquisition's preliminary purchase price allocation in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements is based upon the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities and is subject to change upon the completion of the purchase accounting valuation and the determination of the working capital adjustment. The preliminary fair values of certain assets and liabilities have been determined with the assistance of a third-party valuation firm. We expect to finalize purchase accounting within twelve months of the Acquisition date.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Snap-on that would have been reported had the Acquisition and Commercial Paper issuances been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or financial position of Snap-on. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not reflect any incremental revenues, operating efficiencies or cost savings that Snap-on may achieve with respect to the consolidated companies. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Snap-on included in its periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K filed February 21, 2006, and in its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, along with the combined financial statements and accompanying notes of PQBS included in the PQBS 2005 audited combined financial statements and in the PQBS unaudited combined financial statements for the 39-week periods ended September 30, 2006 and October 1, 2005, filed herewith.
2. ProQuest Business Solutions Acquisition
Snap-on and ProQuest Company entered into a Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") on October 20, 2006, which was amended on November 1, 2006, pursuant to which Snap-on would acquire PQBS for a preliminary purchase price of $516 million (including $8 million of estimated transaction costs) in cash plus the assumption of approximately $19 million of debt. On November 28, 2006, Snap-on completed the Acquisition of PQBS and has included the financial results of PQBS in the company's consolidated financial statements beginning on that date. The total preliminary purchase price is further subject to a working capital adjustment expected to be settled in the first quarter of 2007.
Under purchase accounting, the total preliminary purchase price will be allocated to PQBS's net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of November 28, 2006. The excess of the purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets will be recorded as goodwill.
Identifiable intangible assets acquired consist of customer relationships and developed technology. The preliminary estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets was determined with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist. Customer relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with customers of PQBS's installed product base. Developed technology, which comprises products that have reached technological feasibility, includes products in most of PQBS's product lines, principally the electronic parts catalog ("EPC") business.
3. Unsecured Commercial Paper
Funding for the Acquisition included proceeds from the issuance of unsecured commercial paper obligations in an aggregate principal amount of $305 million with varying maturity dates. The commercial paper was offered and sold in privately negotiated transactions pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
In connection with the PQBS Acquisition, Snap-on increased its total committed credit facilities by $250 million to $670 million, of which $352 million remained available after closing of the Acquisition. See Snap-on's filing on Form 8-K dated November 10, 2006, for a description of the $250 million revolving credit facility.
4. Pro Forma Adjustments
(Dollars in millions)
The following pro forma adjustments are included in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed consolidated statement of earnings:


