FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20070425115013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)            
April 23, 2007
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 Street, Kenosha, WI  53141
2801 80
th
(Address of principal executive offices)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 5.02
                               
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment
of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On April 23, 2007, the Snap-on Incorporated Board of Directors elected Nicholas T. Pinchuk as Snap-on's President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Pinchuk was also elected to the company's Board of Directors; his term will expire at the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders.
Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Pinchuk was Snap-on's Senior Vice President and President - Worldwide Commercial & Industrial Group, which positions he has held since joining Snap-on in June 2002.  Prior to joining Snap on, Mr. Pinchuk, age 60, served in several executive operational and financial management positions at United Technologies Corporation, including president, Global Refrigeration Operations of its Carrier Corporation unit and president of Carrier's Asia Pacific Operations.  Before Carrier, he held various financial and engineering positions at Ford Motor Company.  Mr. Pinchuk also serves on the board of directors of Columbus McKinnon Corporation.
Mr. Pinchuk's salary was increased to $550,000 annually as a result of his election to the new positions of President and Chief Operating Officer. Because Mr. Pinchuk is currently an executive officer of Snap-on, and one of its "named executive officers," information as to his compensation and the terms of his employment (including his severance agreement and his change in control agreement) is included in Snap-on's definitive proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of shareholders (the "2007 Proxy Statement").
Jack D. Michaels is continuing as Snap-on's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Board of Directors.
In addition, on April 24, 2007, Thomas J. Ward was appointed Senior Vice President and President - Snap-on Tools Company LLC, replacing Alan T. Biland who is leaving that position at Snap-on to pursue other interests.  Snap-on is in discussions with Mr. Biland concerning the terms of his departure from the company.  As a result of Mr. Ward's selection for the new positions, his base salary was increased to $370,000, and an option for 10,000 shares has been recommended to be granted to Mr. Ward by the Organization and Executive Compensation Committee of Snap-on's Board of Directors, which administers Snap-on's Incentive and Stock Awards Plan, at the Committee's next regular meeting.  Mr. Ward was previously Senior Vice President and President - Diagnostics and Information Group of Snap-on.  Because Mr. Ward is currently also one of Snap-on's "named executive officers, information as to his compensation and the terms of his employment (including his change in control agreement) is included in the 2007 Proxy Statement.
Information as to Mr. Pinchuk's and Mr. Ward's compensation and their agreements with Snap-on included under the caption "Executive Compensation Information" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this Report, and the news release which is filed as an exhibit hereto, that are not historical facts, including statements (i) that include the words "expects," "plans," "targets," "estimates," "believes," "anticipates," or similar words
2
that reference Snap-on or its management; (ii) specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iii) describing Snap-on's or management's future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Snap-on cautions the reader that the news release contains statement that are forward-looking in nature and were developed by management in good faith and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties regarding Snap-on's expected results that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in any such statement.  The company's actual results may differ materially from those described or contemplated in the forward-looking statements.  In particular, the changes in management inherently may impact Snap-on's business and operations which could affect Snap-on's results of operations and prospects.  Other factors that may cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those found in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the information under the "Safe Harbor" and "Risk Factors" headings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006.  Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this Report, except as required by law.
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None.
(b) None.
(c) None.
(d) :
Exhibits
 
3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on Incorporated has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
KENOSHA, Wis.  April 24, 2007  Snap-on Incorporated (NYSE: SNA), a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics and equipment solutions for professional users, today announced that Nicholas T. Pinchuk, most recently senior vice president and president of Snap-on's Worldwide Commercial and Industrial Group, has been promoted to president and chief operating officer of the company. Prior to his promotion, the position of president had been held by Jack Michaels, Snap-on's chairman and chief executive officer.
Mr. Pinchuk has also been appointed to the company's board, expanding it to eleven directors, nine of whom are independent. Mr. Pinchuk will be nominated for election by shareholders in connection with the company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
"With the support of our 12,400 associates world-wide, we have made significant progress in improving the financial and operating performance of our company. Today, Snap-on is the clear brand leader in the markets we serve, and our franchisee network is stronger than ever," said Mr. Michaels. "Nick's appointment capitalizes on the deep management team we have established and will help sustain our positive momentum well into the future.
"Nick has a solid record of accomplishment both here at Snap-on and in his previous roles. He also has a clear understanding of our goals as well as our strategies to achieve them. I look forward to working with Nick as our new chief operating officer to further hone these strategies and reach new levels of growth and profitability," continued Mr. Michaels.
"I am honored by the confidence that Jack and the board have shown in me and share their vision of ensuring that Snap-on is the most valued productivity solutions provider in the world," said Mr. Pinchuk. "Due to the actions we've taken to enhance our value proposition for customers and franchisees, the Corporation is well-positioned for success around the world. I look forward to working with Jack and the entire leadership team, and franchisees as we go forward to realize Snap-on's extraordinary potential."
Mr. Pinchuk has served as senior vice president and president of Snap-on's Worldwide Commercial and Industrial Group since June 2002. Prior to joining Snap-on, Mr. Pinchuk served in several executive operational and financial management positions at United Technologies Corporation, including president, Global Refrigeration Operations of its Carrier Corporation unit and president of Carrier's Asia-Pacific Operations. Before Carrier, he held various financial and engineering positions at the Ford Motor Company. He held the rank of First Lieutenant in the United States Army from 1970 to 1971.
Mr. Pinchuk serves on the board of directors of Columbus McKinnon Corporation. He has a Master and Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and also received a Master of Business Administration from Harvard.
About Snap-on
Snap-on Incorporated is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics and equipment solutions for professional users. Product lines include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle manufacturers, dealerships and repair centers, as well as customers in industry, government, agriculture and construction. Products are sold through its franchisees, company-direct sales and distributor channels, as well as over the Internet. Founded in 1920, Snap-on is a $2.5 billion, S&P 500 company headquartered in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
For additional information on Snap-on, visit www.snapon.com.
Forward-looking Statements
This news release contains statements that are forward-looking in nature and were developed by management in good faith and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties. In particular, the changes in management inherently may impact Snap-on's business and operations which could affect Snap-on's results of operations and prospects. For further information about Snap-on's forward looking statements and related cautionary factors, please see "forward-looking statements" in our contemporary press release regarding fiscal first quarter financial results.
Contacts
 
 
 
2


