FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20071219114729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)            
December 18, 2007
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   
(262) 656-5200
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On December 18, 2007, the Snap-on Incorporated ("Snap-on") Board of Directors elected Nicholas T. Pinchuk, previously Snap-on's President and Chief Operating Officer, as Snap-on's President and Chief Executive Officer.  Jack D. Michaels, Snap-on's prior Chief Executive Officer, retired from that position upon Mr. Pinchuk's election, but is continuing as a member of Snap-on's Board of Directors.  Mr. Michaels will also continue as Snap-on's Chairman, which will not be considered an executive officer position.
 
Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Pinchuk, age 61, served as Snap-on's President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2007, and as Snap-on's Senior Vice President and President  Worldwide Commercial & Industrial Group from the time he joined Snap-on in 2002 until April 2007.  Mr. Pinchuk also serves on the board of directors of Columbus McKinnon Corporation.
 
Mr. Pinchuk's base salary was increased to $750,000 annually as a result of his election to the new position of President and Chief Executive Officer. It was also determined that his 2008 Management Incentive Plan target would be 100% of base salary, weighted 50% each for company financial goals and strategic business goals, and his 2008 Long Term Incentive target grant value would be $3.0 million.  The letter agreement by and between Snap-on and Mr. Pinchuk, dated June 4, 2002, regarding severance payments was terminated.  Because Mr. Pinchuk is currently an executive officer of Snap-on, and one of its "named executive officers," information as to his compensation and the terms of his employment (including the terminated letter agreement and his change in control agreement, which expires by its terms in January 2008 and may be replaced) is included in Snap-on's definitive proxy statement for its 2007 annual meeting of shareholders (the "2007 Proxy Statement").  In addition, in connection with the change in position and effective January 1, 2008, Mr. Michaels' base salary is changed to $300,000 annually, subject to further adjustment as part of the fiscal 2008 compensation process.
 
Further information as to Mr. Pinchuk's and Mr. Michaels' historical compensation and the terms of their employment with Snap-on is included under the caption "Executive Compensation Information" in the 2007 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference; Mr. Pinchuk's salary was subsequently increased to $550,000 in April 2007 upon his election as President and Chief Operating Officer.
 
Forward-looking Statements
 
Statements in this Report, and the news release which is filed as an exhibit hereto, that are not historical facts, including statements (i) that include the words "expects," "plans," "targets," "estimates," "believes," "anticipates," or similar words that reference Snap-on or its management; (ii) specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iii) describing Snap-on's or management's future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Snap-on cautions the reader that the news release contains statements that are forward-looking in nature and were developed by management in good faith and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties regarding Snap-on's expected results that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in any such statement.  The company's actual results may differ materially from those described or contemplated in the forward-looking statements.  In particular, the changes in management inherently may impact Snap-on's
business and operations which could affect Snap-on's results of operations and prospects.  Other factors that may cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those found in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the information under the "Safe Harbor" and "Risk Factors" headings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006.  Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this Report, except as required by law.
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None.
(b) None.
(c) None.
(d) :
Exhibits
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on Incorporated has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
Snap-on Incorporated
 
December 18, 2007
 
Mr. Nicholas T. Pinchuk 1430 W. Lakewood Drive Lake Forest, IL 60045
 
Dear Nick,
 
It is with pleasure that I confirm the details of your promotion to the position of president and chief executive officer.
 
 
The following terms and conditions also apply to your position:
 
1.
                                      
You will continue to be eligible for participation in the Company's health benefits, supplemental pension, and deferred compensation plans; to the extent those plans continue to be offered to employees.
2.
                                      
As you were previously notified, the Company will offer you the opportunity to enter into a new change in control agreement to replace your current Senior Officer Agreement which will expire on January 31, 2008.
3.
                                      
In consideration of your promotion to president and chief executive offer, and effective on your start date, the Company will terminate the agreement dated June 4, 2002 regarding severance payments.
 
Please acknowledge your acceptance of the terms of this letter by dating and signing where indicated below.
 
 
cc:  Iain Boyd
 
Snap-on Incorporated P.O. Box 1410, Kenosha, WI 53141-1410 * Tel: 262-656-5200
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
KENOSHA, Wis.  December 18, 2007 
Snap-on Incorporated (NYSE: SNA), a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics and equipment solutions for professional users today announced, consistent with its succession plans, that Nicholas T. Pinchuk, currently president and chief operating officer, has been elected president and chief executive officer.  Mr. Pinchuk succeeds Jack D. Michaels who will remain chairman of Snap-on's board of directors.
 
"Nick has been a valuable member of the Snap-on team as we have worked successfully to capitalize on our abundant growth opportunities and build the Snap-on brand," said Mr. Michaels.  "Nick's leadership as COO reaffirms that he will guide the Corporation's continued success."
 
"I'm delighted by the opportunity to carry on the achievements accomplished by our dedicated Snap-on organization," said Mr. Pinchuk.  "I look forward to working with the Board, our loyal franchisees, and our committed associates around the world to build and expand on Snap-on's considerable strengths."
 
Mr. Pinchuk joined Snap-on in 2002 as senior vice president and president of Snap-on's Worldwide Commercial and Industrial Group.  He was named president and chief operating officer in April 2007, when he was also appointed to Snap-on's board of directors.  Prior to joining Snap-on, Mr. Pinchuk served in several executive operational and financial management positions at United Technologies Corporation.  Before United Technologies, he held various financial and engineering positions at the Ford Motor Company.  He also served as an officer in the United States Army.
 
Mr. Pinchuk is a member of the board of directors of Columbus McKinnon Corporation.  He received Master and Bachelor of Science degrees in Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and a Master of Business Administration from Harvard.
 
About Snap-on
 
Snap-on Incorporated is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics and equipment solutions for professional users. Product lines include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as customers in general industry, energy and natural resources, aerospace, agriculture and construction. Products are sold through its franchisees,
company-direct sales and distributor channels, as well as over the Internet. Founded in 1920, Snap-on
is a $2.7 billion, S&P 500 company headquartered in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
 
For additional information on Snap-on, visit www.snapon.com.
 


