FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20080422071117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)    
April 22, 2008
Snap-on Incorporated
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  
(262) 656-5200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On April 22, 2008 Snap-on Incorporated (the Corporation) issued a press release entitled Snap-on Announces First Quarter 2008 Results; Reports EPS from continuing operations of $0.97 compared to $0.64 last year; Completes acquisition of 60% interest in Chinese hand tool manufacturer. The text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results of the Corporation to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statement of the Corporation.
The press release also contains information concerning the impacts of foreign currency translation on certain items of reported results, and this information may include non-GAAP financial measures. The Corporation presents information in this manner to show changes in these items of reported results apart from those related to the quarterly volatility of foreign currency changes.
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on Incorporated has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
Snap-on Announces First Quarter 2008 Results
Reports EPS from continuing operations of $0.97 compared to $0.64 last year; Completes acquisition of 60% interest in Chinese hand tool manufacturer
KENOSHA, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Snap-on Incorporated (NYSE: SNA), a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions for professional users, today announced operating results for the first quarter of 2008.
Snap-ons first quarter results clearly reinforce the strategic importance of our global scope and customer diversification initiatives, particularly in light of the more challenging economic environment in the United States, said Nick Pinchuk, Snap-ons president and chief executive officer. Our broad and expansive product portfolio and global customer base, combined with the essential nature of the productivity solutions we provide to professional users, has us well-positioned to achieve a strong and sustainable platform for profitable growth. Our associates continue to make progress in executing our strategies to extend our brands to new customers, improve our global supply chain, strengthen customer service and reduce overall complexity and cost, and I thank them for their ongoing efforts and support. In that regard, I also want to thank our franchisees for their loyalty and their contributions in building a stronger Snap-on.
Highlights of Snap-ons first quarter 2008 operating results are as follows:
Net sales increased $15.9 million over prior year to $721.6 million, including $33.2 million from currency translation as a result of the companys continued geographic diversification initiatives; 44% of first quarter sales came from outside the United States. Higher sales of tools to industrial customers, increased sales of diagnostics and information products, and continued sales growth in emerging markets were more than offset by $19.5 million of lower sales from the timing of OEM essential tool and facilitation programs and by lower North American franchise sales.
Operating earnings of $93.2 million increased $24.5 million, or 35.7%, over prior year primarily due to $9.1 million of increased financial services income, $3.6 million of lower restructuring costs, and continued operating margin improvement; currency translation contributed $3.0 million of the increase. As a percent of revenues, operating earnings improved to 12.5% in 2008 from 9.6% in 2007.
Net earnings from continuing operations of $56.6 million, or $0.97 per diluted share, compared with $38.0 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, in 2007.
Snap-on expects full year 2008 sales and earnings to exceed 2007 levels.
segment sales of $356.7 million were up $34.9 million from prior-year levels including $24.0 million of currency translation, higher sales of tools to industrial customers, continued strong sales growth in emerging markets and increased sales of power tools. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of BAHCO professional tools in southern Europe.
Commercial & Industrial Group
Operating earnings of $38.2 million increased $10.1 million, or 35.9%, from prior year primarily due to the higher sales, improved pricing and continued benefits from Rapid Continuous Improvement (RCI) and other cost reduction initiatives, which more than offset higher production and material costs and $2.4 million of increased spending to further expand the companys sales and manufacturing presence in emerging growth markets and lower-cost regions. The operating earnings increase also reflects $3.9 million of lower restructuring costs and $1.6 million of currency translation. As a percentage of sales, operating earnings in the quarter improved to 10.7% as compared with 8.7% a year ago.
We are also very pleased to announce that Snap-on recently completed the acquisition of a 60% interest in Zhejiang Wanda Tools Co., Ltd., a hot-forged hand tool manufacturer in China, said Pinchuk. This strategic joint venture builds on Snap-ons current presence in the region and complements the companys existing production capabilities in Kunshan, China. Our majority ownership of Wanda Tools, our first hand tool manufacturing facility in China, is expected to be a key contributor to our future state and is another important step in extending Snap-ons manufacturing capability and market coverage in emerging markets around the world.
segment sales of $289.3 million increased slightly from prior-year levels as the impacts of $7.5 million of currency translation and continued higher sales in the companys international franchise operations were largely offset by a decline in North American franchise sales. In the United States, sales declined 3.1% primarily due to the initial van fill associated with the first quarter 2007 introduction of the companys new mid-tier product line and lower sales of higher-priced tool storage and equipment products.
Snap-on Tools Group
Operating earnings of $34.4 million increased $5.1 million, or 17.4%, from prior year as the impact of lower organic (excluding currency) sales was more than offset by cost reduction benefits from RCI initiatives and lower franchisee termination costs. Operating earnings in 2008 also benefited from $2.1 million of lower LIFO-related inventory costs and $1.4 million of currency translation. As a percentage of sales, operating earnings in the quarter improved to 11.9% as compared with 10.2% a year ago.
segment sales of $155.0 million were down $8.8 million from prior-year levels. Higher sales of diagnostics and Mitchell1 information products and $2.7 million of currency translation were more than offset by $19.5 million of lower OEM sales. The lower OEM sales primarily resulted from the first quarter 2007 rollout of a major essential tool program in North America and the continued impact of the wind down of a facilitation program in Europe.
Diagnostics & Information Group
Operating earnings of $20.4 million were down slightly from prior-year levels as benefits from RCI initiatives and an improved sales mix of higher-margin diagnostics and information products largely offset the sales decline in the OEM business. As a percentage of sales, operating earnings in the quarter improved to 13.2% as compared with 12.6% a year ago.
operating income was $12.8 million on $25.4 million of revenue, as compared with $3.7 million of operating income on $13.4 million of revenue a year ago, primarily due to higher net yields as a result of lower market discount rates.
Financial Services
Outlook
Snap-on expects to continue investing in its strategic growth initiatives aimed at expanding value provided to its traditional customers, penetrating new and adjacent segments, and extending its presence in the emerging markets of Asia/Pacific and Eastern Europe.
As previously communicated, Snap-on expects that its full year 2008 sales and operating earnings will exceed 2007 levels. Snap-on incurred $4.6 million of exit and disposal costs in the first quarter of 2008 and continues to expect full year 2008 restructuring costs to be in a range of $15 million to $20 million. Snap-on anticipates that its full year effective income tax rate on earnings before minority interests and equity earnings will approximate 33.4% in 2008.
Conference Call and Webcast April 22, 2008, at 9:00 a.m. Central Time
A discussion of this release will be webcast on Tuesday, April 22, 2008, at 9:00 a.m. Central Time, and a replay will be available for at least 10 days following the call. To access the webcast, visit , click on Snap-on Corporate and then click on the link for the webcast. Additional detail about Snap-on is also available on the Snap-on Web site.
www.snapon.com
About Snap-on
Snap-on Incorporated is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions for professional users. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as customers in industry, government, agriculture, aviation and natural resources. Products and services are sold through the companys franchisee, company-direct, distributor and Internet channels. Founded in 1920, Snap-on is a $2.8 billion, S&P 500 company headquartered in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this news release that are not historical facts, including statements that (i) are in the future tense; (ii) include the words expects, anticipates, intends, approximates, or similar words that reference Snap-on or its management; (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iv) describe Snap-ons or managements future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Snap-on cautions the reader that this news release contains statements, including earnings projections, that are forward-looking in nature and were developed by management in good faith and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties regarding Snap-ons expected results that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described or contemplated in any forward-looking statement. Factors that may cause the companys actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those found in the companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the information under the Safe Harbor and Risk Factors headings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this news release, except as required by law.
.
For additional information, please visit
www.snapon.com
CONTACT: Snap-on Incorporated Investors: Martin M. Ellen 262/656-6462 or Media: Richard Secor 262/656-5561


