FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20090814135451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
        On August 11, 2009, Snap-on Incorporated (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Mizuho Securities USA Inc., UBS Securities LLC and Barclays Capital Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters listed therein (collectively, the "Underwriters") pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell and the Underwriters agreed to purchase, subject to and upon terms and conditions set forth therein, $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.125% Notes due 2021 (the "Notes").
        The offering of the Notes closed on August 14, 2009.
        The Notes were issued pursuant to the Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of January 8, 2007, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), and related officers' certificate which established the terms of the Notes. The descriptions of the Indenture, the officers' certificate and the Notes in this Current Report on Form 8-K are summaries and are qualified in their entirety by the terms of the Indenture, the officers' certificate and the Notes, respectively.
        The Company will pay interest on the Notes semi-annually on March 1 and September 1, beginning on March 1, 2010, to holders of record on the preceding February 15 and August 15, as the case may be. Interest will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The 6.125% Notes due 2021 will mature on September 1, 2021, unless redeemed prior to that date.
        The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally with all of the other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated senior indebtedness of the Company. The Indenture includes covenants, including limitations on the Company's ability, subject to exceptions, to incur debt secured by liens and to engage in sale/leaseback transactions. The Indenture also provides for events of default and further provides that the Trustee or the holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare the Notes immediately due and payable upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any event of default after expiration of any applicable grace period. In the case of specified events of bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or reorganization, the principal amount of the Notes and any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes automatically become due and payable.
        All or a portion of the Notes may be redeemed at the Company's option in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, prior to their stated maturity, at the make-whole redemption price set forth in the Notes. If a change of control repurchase event occurs, the Notes are subject to repurchase by the Company at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
        The information provided in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K pertaining to the Notes is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
        The following exhibits are being filed herewith:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

New York, New York August 11, 2009
To the Representatives named in         Schedule I hereto of the several         Underwriters named in         Schedule II hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
        Snap-on Incorporated, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware (the "Company"), proposes to sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule II hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you (the "Representatives") are acting as representatives, the principal amount of its securities identified in Schedule I hereto (the "Securities"), to be issued under an indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of January 8, 2007, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee"). To the extent there are no additional Underwriters listed on Schedule II other than you, the term Representatives as used herein shall mean you, as Underwriters, and the terms Representatives and Underwriters shall mean either the singular or plural as the context requires. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 which were filed under the Exchange Act on or before the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the issue date of the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be; and any reference herein to the terms "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the filing of any document under the Exchange Act after the Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the issue date of the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus, as the case may be, deemed to be incorporated therein by reference. Certain terms used herein are defined in Section 21 hereof.
        1.    . The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter as set forth below in this Section 1:
Representations and Warranties
        Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Securities shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company, as to matters covered thereby, to each Underwriter.
        2.    . Subject to the terms and conditions and in reliance upon the representations and warranties herein set forth, the Company agrees to sell to each Underwriter, and each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at the purchase price set forth in Schedule I hereto the principal amount of the Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule II hereto.
Purchase and Sale
        3.    . Delivery of and payment for the Securities shall be made on the date and at the time specified in Schedule I hereto or at such time on such later date not more than three Business Days after the foregoing date as the Representatives shall reasonably designate, which date and time may be postponed by agreement between the Representatives and the Company or as provided in Section 10 hereof (such date and time of delivery and payment for the Securities being herein called the "Closing Date"). Delivery of the Securities shall be made to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters against payment by the several Underwriters through the Representatives of the purchase price thereof to or upon the order of the Company by wire transfer payable in same-day funds to an account specified by the Company. Delivery of the Securities shall be made through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") unless the Representatives shall otherwise instruct.
Delivery and Payment
        4.    . It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
        5.    . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Agreements of the Company
        6.    . Each Underwriter agrees with the Company that:
Agreements of the Underwriters
        7.    . The obligations of the Underwriters to purchase the Securities shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company contained herein as of the Execution Time and the Closing Date, to the accuracy of the statements of the Company made in any certificates pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Underwriters
References to the Final Prospectus in this Section 7(e) include any supplement thereto at the date of the letter.
        If any of the conditions specified in this Section 7 shall not have been fulfilled when and as provided in this Agreement, or if any of the opinions and certificates mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall not be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, this Agreement and all obligations of the Underwriters hereunder may be canceled at, or at any time prior to, the Closing Date by the Representatives. Notice of such cancellation shall be given to the Company in writing or by telephone or facsimile confirmed in writing.
        The documents required to be delivered by this Section 7 shall be delivered at the office of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, at 425 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York, on the Closing Date.
        8.    . If the sale of the Securities provided for herein is not consummated because any condition to the obligations of the Underwriters set forth in Section 7 hereof is not satisfied, because of any termination pursuant to Section 11 hereof or because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or comply with any provision hereof other than by reason of a default by any of the Underwriters, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters severally through the Representatives on demand for all expenses (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) that shall have been incurred by them in connection with the proposed purchase and sale of the Securities.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
        9.    . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, the directors, officers, employees and agents of each Underwriter and each person who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the registration statement for the registration of the Securities as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in the Base Prospectus, any Preliminary Prospectus or any other preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, the Final Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or the information contained in the final term sheet required to be prepared and filed pursuant to Section 5(b) hereto and the Disclosure Package, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and agrees to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein (it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 9(b) hereof). This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification and Contribution
provided
however
        (b)     Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signs the Registration Statement, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Underwriter, but only with reference to written information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any Underwriter may otherwise have. The Company acknowledges that the names of the Underwriters on the front and back covers of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus and the statements set forth in the paragraph under the heading "Underwriting  Offering Price, Concessions and Reallowances" and in the paragraph under the heading "Underwriting  Stabilization" relating to stabilization activities in any Preliminary Prospectus or the Final Prospectus constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the several Underwriters for inclusion in any Preliminary Prospectus, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and the Representatives confirm that such statements are correct.
        (c)     Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 9 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 9, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under Section 9(a) or 9(b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in Section 9(a) or 9(b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the reasonable fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel) and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (other than local counsel) for all indemnified parties) if (i) the indemnified party shall have reasonably determined that use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest, (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
provided
however
        (d)     In the event that the indemnity provided in Section 9(a) or 9(b) is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally agree to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively "Losses") to which the Company and one or more of the Underwriters may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and by the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities; , , that in no case shall any Underwriter (except as may be provided in any agreement among underwriters relating to the offering of the Securities) be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the Securities purchased by such Underwriter hereunder. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the Company and the Underwriters severally shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by it, and benefits received by the Underwriters shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, in each case as set forth on the cover page of the Final Prospectus. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or any alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information provided by the Company on the one hand or the Underwriters on the other, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such alleged untrue statement or omission. The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9(d), no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 9, each person who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this Section 9(d).
provided
however
        10.    . If any one or more Underwriters shall fail to purchase and pay for any of the Securities agreed to be purchased by such Underwriter or Underwriters hereunder and such failure to purchase shall constitute a default in the performance of its or their obligations under this Agreement, the remaining Underwriters shall be obligated severally to take up and pay for (in the respective proportions which the principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names in Schedule II hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite the names of all the remaining Underwriters) the Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase; , , that in the event that the aggregate principal amount of Securities which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase shall exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule II hereto, the remaining Underwriters shall have the right to purchase all, but shall not be under any obligation to purchase any, of the Securities, and if such nondefaulting Underwriters do not purchase all the Securities, this Agreement will terminate without liability to any nondefaulting Underwriter or the Company. In the event of a default by any Underwriter as set forth in this Section 10, the Closing Date shall be postponed for such period, not exceeding five Business Days, as the Representatives shall determine in order that the required changes in the Registration Statement and the Final Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter of its liability, if any, to the Company and any nondefaulting Underwriter for damages occasioned by its default hereunder.
Default by an Underwriter
provided
however
        11.    . This Agreement shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice given to the Company prior to delivery of and payment for the Securities, if prior to such time (i) trading in the Company's Common Stock shall have been suspended by the Commission or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited or minimum prices shall have been established on such Exchange, (ii) a banking moratorium shall have been declared either by federal or New York state authorities, (iii) a material disruption in commercial banking activities or securities settlement or clearance systems shall have occurred or (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or other calamity or crisis, the effect of which on financial markets is such as to make it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Securities as contemplated by any Preliminary Prospectus and the Final Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto after the Execution Time).
Termination
        12.    . The respective agreements, representations, warranties, indemnities and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of the officers, directors, employees, agents or controlling persons referred to in Section 9 hereof, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities. The provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereof shall survive the termination or cancellation of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive
        13.    . All communications hereunder will be in writing and effective only on receipt, and, if sent to the Representatives, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to the Citigroup Global Markets Inc., General Counsel (fax no.: (212) 816-7912), and confirmed to the General Counsel, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: General Counsel; J.P. Morgan Securities, High Grade Syndicate Desk (fax no.: (212) 834-6081), and confirmed to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk  8th floor; Mizuho Securities USA Inc., Debt Capital Markets Desk (fax no.: (917) 512-7166), and confirmed to Mizuho Securities USA Inc. at 1251 Avenue of the Americas  33rd floor, New York, New York 10020, Attention: Debt Capital Markets Desk; UBS Securities LLC, Fixed Income Syndicate Desk (fax no.: (203) 719-0495), and confirmed to UBS Securities LLC at 677 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, Connecticut 06901, Attention: Fixed Income Syndicate Desk; and Barclays Capital Inc., Syndicate Registration (fax no.: (646) 834-8133), and confirmed to Barclays Capital Inc. at 745 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019, Attention: Syndicate Registration; or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telefaxed to (262) 656-5127 and confirmed to it at 2801 80th Street, Kenosha, Wisconsin 53141, Attention: Legal Department.
Notices
        14.    . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers, directors, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Section 9 hereof, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
        15.    . The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters and any affiliate through which it may be acting, on the other, (b) the Underwriters are acting as principal and not as an agent or fiduciary of the Company and (c) the Company's engagement of the Underwriters in connection with the offering and the process leading up to the offering is as independent contractors and not in any other capacity. Furthermore, the Company agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own judgments in connection with the offering (irrespective of whether any of the Underwriters has advised or is currently advising the Company on related or other matters). The Company agrees that it will not claim that the Underwriters have rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owe an agency, fiduciary or similar duty to the Company, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
No Fiduciary Duty
        16.    . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the Underwriters, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Integration
        17.    . This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed within the State of New York.
Applicable Law
        18.    . The Company hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Waiver of Jury Trial
        19.    . This Agreement may be signed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
        20.    . The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
        21.    . The terms that follow, when used in this Agreement, shall have the meanings indicated.
Definitions
        If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Underwriters.
The foregoing Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date specified in Schedule I hereto.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
UBS Securities LLC
Barclays Capital Inc.
For themselves and the other several Underwriters named in Schedule II to the foregoing Agreement
Underwriting Agreement dated August 11, 2009
Indenture dated as of January 8, 2007, between Snap-on Incorporated and U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking corporation, as trustee
Registration Statement No. 333-139863
Representatives: Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Mizuho Securities USA Inc., UBS Securities LLC and Barclays Capital Inc.
Title, Purchase Price and Brief Description of Securities:
None (other than the final term sheet referred to in Section 5(b) of this Agreement).
The security ratings above are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the securities offered hereby. The ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Each of the security ratings above should be evaluated independently of any other security rating.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and the other documents that the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll-free at 1-877-858-5407, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at 1-212-834-4533, Mizuho Securities USA Inc. toll-free at 1-800-221-8866 (ext. 3143), UBS Securities LLC toll-free at 877-827-6444 (ext. 561-3884) or Barclays Capital Inc. toll-free at 888-603-5847.
www.sec.gov

        Pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Indenture dated as of January 8, 2007 (the ""), between Snap-on Incorporated (the "") and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, the undersigned on behalf of the Company and in our respective capacities indicated below, hereby certify that we have examined resolutions duly adoptedat a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Company on August 6, 2009. Acting pursuant thereto, the undersigned hereby establish a series of Debt Securities (the "") by means of this Officers' Certificate, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 of the Indenture:
Indenture
Company
Notes
        Capitalized terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture are used herein as so defined.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Officers' Certificate as of the date first set forth above.
        
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of the Depository to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of the nominee of the Depository or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository (and any payment is made to the nominee of the Depository or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depository), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, the nominee of the Depository, has an interest herein.
CUSIP 833034 AH4
        SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assignees, the principal sum of TWO HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($250,000,000) on September 1, 2021 (the ""), and to pay interest thereon from August 14, 2009, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined below) to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year and at maturity (each, an "), commencing on March 1, 2010 (in each case excluding the Interest Payment Date), at the rate of 6.125% per annum, until the principal hereof becomes due and payable, and at such rate on any overdue principal and (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable) on any overdue installment of interest. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this 6.125% Note Due 2021 (this "," and all of the Notes collectively referred to herein as the "") (or one or more Predecessor Debt Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the February 15 or August 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date; , , that interest payable on the Interest Payment Date occurring at maturity will be paid to the person to whom principal shall be payable. Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date by virtue of his having been such Holder, and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Debt Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. If any Interest Payment Date, any Redemption Date (as defined below) or the Stated Maturity Date or other maturity date in respect of the Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then the payment to be made on such date will be made on the next Business Day without additional interest and with the same effect as if it were made on the originally scheduled date.
Company
Stated Maturity Date
"Interest Payment Date
Note
Notes
provided
however
        Payments of interest will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds. Principal and premium, if any, and interest payable at Stated Maturity or other maturity date in respect of the Notes will be paid in immediately available funds upon surrender of the Notes at the office of a paying agent in The City of New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate.
        Unless the certificate of authentication herein has been duly executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
        This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (the ""), issued or to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of January 8, 2007 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "," which term includes any successor Trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Debt Securities and of the terms upon which the Debt Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series of 6.125% Notes due 2021 initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000, except that the Company may, without the consent of the Holders, "reopen" the series and issue additional notes that have the same ranking, interest rate, Stated Maturity Date and other terms as this Note.
Debt Securities
Indenture
Trustee
        All or a portion of the Notes may be redeemed by the Company at any time or from time to time. The price payable for the Notes to be redeemed (the "") on the date of redemption (each, a ") will be equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed on the Redemption Date and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes being redeemed on that Redemption Date (not including any portion of any payments of interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 37.5 basis points, plus in either of case (i) or (ii) above, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes being redeemed to the Redemption Date. The principal amount of the Notes called for redemption shall become due on the Redemption Date. Holders of Notes to be redeemed will receive notice thereof, as provided in the Indenture, by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If fewer than all of the Notes that are not represented by a Global Debt Security are (or if less than all of the principal amount of Notes represented by a Global Debt Security is) to be redeemed, the Trustee will select, not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, the particular Notes or portions thereof for redemption from the outstanding Notes not previously called by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
Redemption Price
"Redemption Date
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest payable on the principal amount of Notes being redeemed that are due and payable on an Interest Payment Date falling on a Redemption Date shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date according to this Note and the Indenture.
        For purposes of determining the Redemption Price, the following definitions are applicable:
        If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised the right to redeem all of the Notes as described above, the Company will make an offer to each Holder to repurchase in cash all or any part (equal to $1,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but not including, the date of repurchase. Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after the public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company will mail by first-class mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date on which such notice is mailed or, if the notice is mailed prior to the Change of Control, at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, from the date on which the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs. The notice, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, shall state that the offer to repurchase the Notes is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
        The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act (as defined below) and any other securities laws and regulations under the Exchange Act to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with these Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions, the Company will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached the Company's obligations under these Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions by virtue of such conflict.
        On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company will, to the extent lawful: (1) accept for payment all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Company's offer; (2) deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes being repurchased by the Company.
        The paying agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $1,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
provided
        The Company will not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such third party's offer.
        For purposes of this Note, the following definitions are applicable:
        The Company shall have no obligation to redeem or purchase the Notes pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision.
        If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of all the Notes may be declared, or shall become, due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
        With the consent of the Holders of greater than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Indenture or of any indentures supplemental thereto or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Notes; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall (a) without the consent of each Holder of each Outstanding Note affected thereby, extend the fixed maturity of the Notes, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of interest thereon, or reduce the principal amount thereof or any premium thereon, or make the principal thereof or interest or premium thereon payable in any coin or currency other than that provided herein, or (b) without the consent of the Holders of all of the Outstanding Notes affected, reduce the percentage of Notes, the Holders of which are required to consent (i) to any such supplemental indenture, (ii) to rescind and annul a declaration that the Notes are due and payable as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, (iii) to waive any past default under the Indenture and its consequences and (iv) to waive compliance with certain other provisions contained in the Indenture.
provided
however
        The Company and the Trustee may also enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Indenture without the consent of the Holders for limited purposes specified in the Indenture.
        The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may on behalf of the Holders of all the Notes waive any past default or Event of Default under the Indenture and its consequences except a default in the payment of principal of or premium, if any, or interest on the Notes.
        Holders of Notes may not enforce their rights pursuant to the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
        The Notes are issuable in registered form without coupons in denominations of U.S.$1,000 and any integral multiple of U.S.$1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes that are of other authorized denominations.
        Notes to be exchanged shall be surrendered at any office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose, and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Notes which the Holder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Note at any such office or agency, the Company shall execute and register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Note for an equal aggregate principal amount. Registration or registration of transfer of any Note by the Debt Security Registrar (initially, U.S. Bank National Association) in the registry books maintained by such Debt Security Registrar in The City of New York, New York, and delivery of such Note, duly authenticated, shall be deemed to complete the registration or registration of transfer of such Note.
        No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith. Prior to due presentment of a Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name a Note is registered as the owner for all purposes whether or not such Note be overdue and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
        Certain of the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to the Notes may be terminated if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or eligible instruments sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all of the Notes, as described in the Indenture.
        This Note is in the form of a Global Security as provided in the Indenture. If at any time the Depository notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depository for this Note or if at any time the Depository for the Notes shall no longer be eligible or in good standing under the Exchange Act, or other applicable statute or regulation, the Company shall appoint a successor Depository with respect to this Note. If a successor Depository for this Note is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will issue Notes in definitive form in exchange for the Global Security representing Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Note in exchange for this Note.
        No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Indenture, any supplemental indenture, or of any Note, or for any claim based thereon or hereon, or otherwise in respect thereof or hereof, as the case may be, shall be had against any incorporator, organizer, member, owner, manager, employee, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any Subsidiary or of any predecessor or successor Person, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liabilities being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
        The Notes are subject to defeasance, at the option of the Company, as provided in the Indenture.
        All terms used in this Note which are not defined herein, but which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
        This is one of the Debt Securities of the series designated herein issued under the within-mentioned Indenture.
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association, as Trustee
        The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
        FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE
the within Security and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing _________________________ attorney to transfer said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
NOTICE: THE SIGNATURE TO THIS ASSIGNMENT MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON THE FACE OF THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT IN EVERY PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT OR ANY CHANGE WHATEVER.

Snap-on Incorporated 2801 80 Street Kenosha, Wisconsin 53143
th
Ladies and Gentlemen:
        We have acted as special counsel for Snap-on Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the preparation of a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-139863) (the ""), including the prospectus constituting a part thereof, dated January 9, 2007, and the supplement to the prospectus, dated August 11, 2009 (collectively, the ""), filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), relating to the issuance and sale by the Company of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.125% Notes due 2021 (the ""). The Securities are being issued pursuant to an Indenture (the ""), dated as of January 8, 2007, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), and the related Officers' Certificate (the ""), dated as of August 14, 2009, which establishes and sets forth terms and conditions of the Securities.
Company
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Securities Act
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
Officers' Certificate
        As special counsel to the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, we have examined: (a) the Registration Statement, including the Prospectus and the exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) constituting a part of the Registration Statement; (b) the Indenture; (c) the Officers' Certificate; (d) the form of the Securities; and (e) such other proceedings, documents and records as we have deemed necessary to enable us to render this opinion.
        In our examination of the above-referenced documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents, certificates and instruments submitted to us as originals and the conformity with the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies.
        We assume for purposes of this opinion that (i) the Trustee is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; (ii) the Trustee is duly qualified to engage in the activities contemplated by the Indenture; (iii) the Indenture was duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms; (iv) the Trustee will be in compliance, generally and with respect to acting as Trustee under the Indenture, with all applicable laws and regulations; and (v) the Trustee will have the requisite legal power and authority to perform its obligations under the Indenture.
Snap-on Incorporated August 14, 2009 Page 2
        Based upon the foregoing, and having regard for such legal considerations as we deem relevant, we are of the opinion that the Securities, when executed, authenticated and issued in accordance with the Indenture and the Officers' Certificate and in the manner and for the consideration contemplated by the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, will be legally issued and valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
        We are qualified to practice law in the States of Wisconsin and New York, and we express no opinion herein on the laws of any jurisdiction other than those of the State of Wisconsin, the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States. To the extent matters covered by this opinion are governed by the laws of a jurisdiction other than the State of Wisconsin, the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the laws of the State of New York or the federal laws of the United States, we have assumed, without independent investigation, that the applicable laws of such jurisdiction are identical in all relevant respects to the substantive laws of the State of Wisconsin.
        We hereby consent to the deemed incorporation by reference of this opinion into the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and to the references to our firm therein. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are "experts" within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act or within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Securities Act.


