FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20090731070025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)    
July 31, 2009
Snap-on Incorporated
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  
(262) 656-5200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On July 31, 2009 Snap-on Incorporated (the Corporation) issued a press release entitled Snap-on Announces Second Quarter 2009 Results;   The text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
EPS of $0.65 for the second quarter 2009; Strong operating cash flow of $155.6 million in the quarter; Sales, operating earnings and EPS improve sequentially from first quarter 2009; Investment in strategic growth opportunities continues.
The press release contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results of the Corporation to differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statement of the Corporation.
The press release also contains information concerning the impacts of foreign currency translation on certain items of reported results, and this information may include non-GAAP financial measures. The Corporation presents information in this manner to show changes in these items of reported results apart from those related to the quarterly volatility of foreign currency changes.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on Incorporated has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99
Snap-on Announces Second Quarter 2009 Results
EPS of $0.65 for the second quarter 2009;
Strong operating cash flow of $155.6 million in the quarter;
Sales, operating earnings and EPS improve sequentially from first quarter 2009;
Investment in strategic growth opportunities continues
KENOSHA, Wis.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 31, 2009--Snap-on Incorporated (NYSE: SNA), a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions for professional users, today announced operating results for the second quarter of 2009.
Sales of $590.0 million were up 3.0% sequentially from first quarter levels, but down 23.0% compared to last year. Without the effects of currency, sales were up 0.8% sequentially, but down 16.4% year over year.
Operating earnings of $70.3 million increased $6.0 million, or 9.3%, over first quarter 2009 on essentially flat sales levels as improved operating performance and higher financial services income were partially offset by $6.6 million of higher restructuring costs. As a percentage of revenues, operating earnings improved to 11.4% from 10.9% in the first quarter. Restructuring costs in the second quarter of $8.6 million reduced the operating margin by approximately 140 basis points. Operating earnings in the second quarter of 2008 were $111.7 million on significantly higher sales volumes.
Cash flow from operations of $155.6 million increased significantly from $14.7 million in the first quarter of 2009 and $80.5 million in the second quarter of 2008 primarily due to working capital improvements principally as a result of increased emphasis on inventory reduction.
Net earnings attributable to Snap-on of $37.4 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, increased $2.6 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, over first quarter 2009 levels. Net earnings attributable to Snap-on in the second quarter of 2008 were $66.9 million, or $1.15 per diluted share.
There were a number of encouraging signs in the second quarter, particularly the sequential improvements for our Snap-on Tools and Diagnostics & Information businesses, said Nick Pinchuk, Snap-on chairman, president and CEO. The deepening of the recession across most European economies and the spreading of economic weakness to other industries had a more severe impact on us in the second quarter, particularly for the Commercial & Industrial Group. Nevertheless, sales and operating income for the overall corporation did improve sequentially from the first quarter. As we said previously, we continue to drive cost reduction initiatives, and in the second quarter took a number of actions resulting in $8.6 million of restructuring costs, with $6.7 million related to the Commercial & Industrial Group. In addition, we continue our investment in the selected strategic growth areas that we believe will be decisive in our future. As a result, we believe Snap-on is making significant quarter-by-quarter strategic progress and will emerge from this downturn in a stronger position. Going forward, we will continue to aggressively manage the balance between investing in growth opportunities and acting on rapid continuous improvement and our other value creation initiatives. Finally, again this quarter, I want to extend my thanks to our franchisees and associates worldwide for their ongoing dedication and contributions.
segment sales of $256.4 million in the quarter declined $131.3 million, or 33.9%, from 2008 levels. Excluding $33.2 million of unfavorable currency translation, organic sales declined 25.3% due to the continued economic downturn.
Commercial & Industrial Group
Operating earnings of $0.1 million in the quarter declined $49.2 million from 2008 levels and declined sequentially from $18.0 million in the first quarter. Operating earnings include $6.7 million of restructuring costs, as compared to $0.4 million last year and $1.3 million in the first quarter of 2009. In addition, foreign currency effects lowered second quarter 2009 operating earnings by $2.1 million from prior-year levels; foreign currency effects compared to first quarter levels were minimal.
Operating earnings in the second quarter of 2009 were significantly impacted by the companys European-based tools business where lower sales levels, continued distributor inventory de-stocking, and further reduction of production levels to draw down inventories had an adverse effect on manufacturing performance. As a result of these factors, and combined with $4.4 million of restructuring spending in the quarter, the companys European-based tools business accounted for the majority of the decline in operating earnings as compared to both last year and the first quarter of 2009. The remainder of the declines in segment operating earnings was principally due to lower sales and higher restructuring costs across the other businesses.
segment sales of $258.3 million in the quarter declined $34.5 million, or 11.8%, from 2008 levels. Excluding $12.4 million of unfavorable currency translation, organic sales declined 7.5%. Organic sales in the second quarter were up 4.5% over first quarter 2009 levels.
Snap-on Tools Group
Operating earnings of $28.0 million in the quarter declined $7.3 million from 2008 levels primarily due to the lower sales volumes, the effects of excess manufacturing costs associated with lower demand and inventory reduction, and unfavorable currency movements. The stronger U.S. dollar decreased international margins on U.S. sourced product by $4.3 million and currency translation further reduced operating earnings by $2.2 million. These declines were partially offset by $9.6 million of savings from ongoing efficiency and productivity (collectively, Rapid Continuous Improvement or RCI) initiatives and other cost reduction activities. As compared to first quarter levels, operating earnings in the second quarter of 2009 increased $6.9 million.
segment sales of $137.0 million in the quarter decreased $27.8 million, or 16.9%, from 2008 levels. Excluding $7.2 million of unfavorable currency translation, organic sales declined 12.5% primarily due to lower essential tool and facilitation program sales to Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) dealerships. Compared to first quarter 2009, organic sales increased sequentially 2.3% primarily due to higher sales of diagnostics products worldwide.
Diagnostics & Information Group
Operating earnings of $34.0 million in the quarter increased $3.0 million, or 9.7%, over 2008 levels despite the lower sales primarily as a result of a more favorable sales mix of higher-margin diagnostics and software products and contributions from RCI and other cost reduction initiatives. As compared to first quarter levels, operating earnings in the second quarter of 2009 increased $8.3 million.
operating income of $16.6 million in the quarter increased $5.8 million from prior-year levels as a result of contributions from lower market discount rates and higher levels of originations.
Financial Services
expenses of $8.4 million in the quarter declined $6.3 million from prior-year levels primarily due to lower performance-based incentive compensation and other expenses, partially offset by $3.0 million of higher expected pension expense.
Corporate
Outlook
The difficulties posed by the global economy continued in the second quarter of 2009, further challenging Snap-ons sales. In the near term, Snap-on anticipates no significant change in the economic climate.
Snap-on is continuously responding to the global macroeconomic challenges by furthering its RCI and cost reduction initiatives. In the first six months of 2009, Snap-on incurred $10.6 million of restructuring costs, including $8.6 million in the second quarter, and presently anticipates that full-year 2009 restructuring costs will be in a range of $20 million to $24 million, up from the previously communicated range of $14 million to $18 million. Snap-on is also proceeding with several of its planned growth investments, including further expansion of its manufacturing capacity in China and in Eastern Europe, both of which are proceeding on schedule. Snap-on continues to expect that full-year capital expenditures will be in a range of $60 million to $70 million.
On July 16, 2009, Snap-on terminated the financial services operating agreement that it had with The CIT Group, Inc. (CIT) relating to the parties Snap-on Credit LLC (SOC) joint venture. SOC will continue to service the portfolio of contracts owned by CIT and Snap-on will provide financing for new contract originations to franchisees and their customers on a prospective basis. Snap-on will incur additional interest cost associated with the funding of the new finance receivables. The new finance receivables will be included on the companys balance sheet, and Snap-on will record the interest yield on these receivables over the life of the contracts as financial services revenue. Previously, the company recorded gains on contracts sold to CIT as financial services revenue. As a result of this change in reporting financial services revenue, Snap-on anticipates that reported financial services revenue and operating income will decline during the transition period as the company builds its portfolio of receivables. The company presently expects that operating income from financial services, which is before interest expense and which totaled $16.6 million in the second quarter of 2009, will be a loss in a range of $8 million to $10 million in each of the third and fourth quarters of 2009. Snap-on estimates that its incremental financing needs for SOC will approximate $450 million over the next 12 months. Snap-on believes that it has sufficient available cash on hand, cash flow from operating activities and available credit facilities, including access to public debt markets, to fund the financing needs of SOC.
Snap-on continues to expect approximately $3.0 million per quarter of higher year-over-year pension expense in 2009 due to declines in pension asset values. For the first six months of 2009, foreign currency effects reduced year-over-year operating earnings by $21.3 million, of which $10.3 million occurred in the second quarter. At current exchange rates, Snap-on expects a continued, but somewhat lessened, impact on its third quarter earnings comparisons.
As a result of the above, Snap-on continues to expect that third quarter sales and earnings will be down year over year. The company anticipates that its second-half 2009 effective income tax rate on earnings attributable to Snap-on will approximate year-to-date 2009 levels.
Snap-on is aggressively managing the balance between investing and capturing strategic growth opportunities with the need for cost reduction actions beyond those already implemented; the current economic uncertainty makes it extremely difficult to presently predict this balance as the company continually adjusts to the challenging business environment.
Conference Call and Webcast July 31, 2009, at 9:00 a.m. Central Time
A discussion of this release will be webcast on Friday, July 31, 2009, at 9:00 a.m. Central Time, and a replay will be available for at least 10 days following the call. To access the webcast, visit , click on Snap-on Corporate and then click on the link for the webcast. Additional detail about Snap-on is also available on the Snap-on Web site.
www.snapon.com
About Snap-on
Snap-on Incorporated is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions for professional users. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as customers in industry, government, agriculture, aviation and natural resources. Products and services are sold through the companys franchisee, company-direct, distributor and Internet channels. Founded in 1920, Snap-on is a $2.9 billion, S&P 500 company headquartered in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this news release that are not historical facts, including statements that (i) are in the future tense; (ii) include the words expects, anticipates, intends, approximates, or similar words that reference Snap-on or its management; (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iv) describe Snap-ons or managements future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Snap-on cautions the reader that this news release contains statements, including earnings projections, that are forward-looking in nature and were developed by management in good faith and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties regarding Snap-ons expected results that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described or contemplated in any forward-looking statement. Factors that may cause the companys actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those found in the companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the information under the Safe Harbor and Risk Factors headings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009, and under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended April 4, 2009, which are incorporated herein by reference.
Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this news release, except as required by law.
For additional information, please visit
www.snapon.com
CONTACT: Snap-on Incorporated Investors: Martin M. Ellen 262/656-6462 or Media: Richard Secor 262/656-5561


