FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20100218134047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 12, 2010, Martin M. Ellen, Snap-on Incorporated's (the "Company") senior vice presidentfinance and chief financial officer, informed the Company that he will resign from that position to become executive vice president and chief financial officer of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. To allow for an appropriate transition, Mr. Ellen will remain chief financial officer at Snap-on until March 31, 2010. Aldo J. Pagliari, currently presidentSnap-on Equipment, and formally group controller/director of finance for the Snap-on Commercial and Industrial Group, was elected senior vice presidentfinance and chief financial officer by the Company's Board of Directors, effective March 31, 2010.
Mr. Pagliari, age 55, has served as presidentSnap-on equipment since April 2007. From January 2006 until April 2007, Mr. Pagliari served as senior vice presidentCommercial and Industrial Group, with responsibility for the Group's global financial operations. From December 2002, when he joined Snap-on, until January 2006 he served as group controller/director of finance and planning for the Commercial and Industrial Group. Prior to joining Snap-on, Mr. Pagliari held several senior posts throughout the worldwide finance and business development organization of United Technologies Corporation. Mr. Pagliari holds a Master of Business Administration degree from Syracuse University and a Bachelor of Science degree from Pennsylvania State University. He is also a certified public accountant.
In his role as senior vice presidentfinance and chief financial officer, Mr. Pagliari will receive a base salary of $340,000 annually and will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's incentive plans. As a result of this promotion, Mr. Pagliari's incentive plan percentage will be increased to 75%. The Company will also enter into a change in control agreement with Mr. Pagliari in substantially the same form as the agreements it has with its other executive officers; the Company's form of change in control agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to its Current Report on Form 8-K, dated January 31, 2008. For a description of the form of change in control agreement and other benefits available to its executive officers, please see the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was filed on March 10, 2009. The Company also expects to enter into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Pagliari in a form substantially the same as Mr. Ellen's (the form of which was filed as Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1998).
To further facilitate the transition, Snap-on will enter into a transition services agreement with Mr. Ellen to be effective upon his resignation. Expected compensation under the transition services agreement will be $20,000 per month, for a minimum of one year, in consideration of Mr. Ellen providing various services to the Company to be specified in the agreement. Mr. Ellen will not be an employee of the Company under this agreement.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this Report, and in the news release which is an exhibit hereto, that are not historical facts, including statements (i) that include the words "expects," "plans," "targets," "estimates," "believes," "anticipates," or similar words that reference Snap-on or its management; (ii) specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iii) describing Snap-on's or management's future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Snap-on cautions the reader that the news release contains statements that are forward-looking in nature and were developed by management in good faith and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties regarding Snap-on's expected results that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in any such statement. The Company's actual results may differ materially from those described or contemplated in the forward-looking statements. In particular, the changes in management inherently may impact Snap-on's business and operations which could affect Snap-on's results of operations and prospects. Other factors that may cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the information under the "Safe Harbor" and "Risk Factors" headings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 2010. Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this Report, except as required by law.
 
(a) None.
(b) None.
(c) None.
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Snap-on Incorporated has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Release:
Immediate
KENOSHA, Wis.  February 16, 2010  Snap-on Incorporated (NYSE: SNA), a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions for professional users, today announced that Martin M. Ellen, senior vice president  finance and chief financial officer, is resigning from Snap-on to become executive vice president and chief financial officer of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS), the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean with 2008 net sales of $5.7 billion. To allow for an appropriate transition, Mr. Ellen will remain as Snap-on's chief financial officer until March 31, 2010. Effective the same date, Aldo J. Pagliari, currently president  Snap-on Equipment, and formerly group controller/director of finance for the Snap-on Commercial and Industrial Group, will succeed Mr. Ellen as Snap-on's senior vice president  finance and chief financial officer.
"Since joining Snap-on in 2002, Marty has made significant contributions to the organization and has been instrumental in driving our operating improvements, building a strong global finance team and leading our financial strategy development and execution," said Nick Pinchuk, Snap-on's chairman and chief executive officer. "This is an extraordinary opportunity for Marty and we wish him much success.
"Aldo brings over 30 years of experience in the areas of finance, operations, corporate strategy and business development to his new role as chief financial officer," Pinchuk continued. "In his eight years at Snap-on, he has played a significant role in leading our progress, established a strong record of achievement and gained a deep understanding of the company's global operations and strategies. The Snap-on finance organization, of which Aldo was previously a part as group controller/director of finance for the Commercial & Industrial Group, is strong and well-disciplined and has made important contributions to the Company's improvement. I'm confident of Aldo's ability to successfully lead that team."
Since 2007, Mr. Pagliari, 55, has been responsible for Snap-on Equipment's worldwide businesses including sales, service, marketing, manufacturing, finance and product development. Previously, he held the position of senior vice president  Commercial & Industrial, with responsibility for the Group's global financial operations. Mr. Pagliari joined Snap-on in 2002 from United Technologies as group controller/director of finance and planning for the Commercial & Industrial Group. At United Technologies, he held several senior posts through the worldwide finance and business development organization, including responsibilities involving European, Latin American, and Asia-Pacific arenas. Mr. Pagliari holds a Master of Business Administration from Syracuse University and a Bachelor of Science in Mineral Economics from Pennsylvania State University. He is also a certified public accountant.
About Snap-on
Snap-on Incorporated is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions for professional users. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as customers in industry, government, agriculture, aviation and natural resources. Products and services are sold through the company's franchisee, company-direct, distributor and Internet channels. Founded in 1920, Snap-on is a $2.4 billion, S&P 500 company headquartered in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
Forward-looking Statements
Statements in this news release that are not historical facts, including statements that (i) are in the future tense; (ii) include the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "approximates," or similar words that reference Snap-on or its management; (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iv) describe Snap-on's or management's future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Snap-on cautions the reader that this news release contains statements, including earnings projections, that are forward-looking in nature and were developed by management in good faith and, accordingly, are subject to risks and uncertainties regarding Snap-on's expected results that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described or contemplated in any forward-looking statement. Factors that may cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements include those found in the company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the information under the "Safe Harbor" and "Risk Factors" headings in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2009, and under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in its fiscal 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, which are incorporated herein by reference. Snap-on-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this news release, except as required by law.
For additional information, please visit
www.snapon.com
or contact:
 


