FILE:SNA/SNA-8K-20111208164634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 8, 2011, Snap-on Incorporated ("Snap-on") entered into a five-year, $500 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that terminates on December 8, 2016. This new facility replaces Snap-on's previous $500 million multi-currency revolving credit facility set to terminate on August 10, 2012. Borrowings under the new facility will bear interest at varying rates based on Snap-on's then-current, long-term debt ratings. At Snap-on's current long-term debt ratings, the interest rate on borrowings under the new facility would be LIBOR plus 90 basis points.
The financial covenants under the new $500 million multi-currency revolving credit facility are substantially the same as those under the previous facility and require that Snap-on maintain, as of each fiscal quarter end, (i) a ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt plus shareholders' equity (including non-controlling interests) of not greater than 0.60 to 1.00; or (ii) a ratio of total debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain other adjustments for the preceding four fiscal quarters then ended of not greater than 3.50 to 1.00. As of the date of this document, Snap-on believes it is in compliance with all covenants of the new revolving credit facility.
The foregoing description of the new $500 million multi-currency revolving credit facility does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2011, among Snap-on and the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders listed on the signature pages thereof and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 8, 2011, in connection with the transaction described in Item 1.01 above, Snap-on terminated its $500 million multi-currency revolving credit facility set to terminate on August 10, 2012. At the time of the termination, Snap-on believes that it was in compliance with all covenants under that facility. For the circumstances relating to the termination, see Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Incorporated herein by reference to Item 1.01 above.
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
Schedules
Schedule I  List of Applicable Lending Offices
Schedule 1.01  Mandatory Cost
Schedule 3.01(b)  Disclosed Litigation
Schedule 5.02(a)  Existing Liens
Exhibits
 
 
 
EXECUTION COPY
SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "") listed on the signature pages hereof, J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC ("") and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. (""), as joint lead arrangers (each, a "" and collectively, the "") and joint bookrunners, MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK (USA), UBS SECURITIES LLC and U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as co-documentation agents, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. (""), as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Borrower
Initial Lenders
JPMorgan
CGMI
Lead Arranger
Lead Arrangers
JPMCB
Agent
PRELIMINARY STATEMENT. The Borrower, the lenders party thereto, JPMCB, as administrative agent, JPMorgan and CGMI, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, are parties to an Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 10, 2007 (the ""). Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 3.01 hereof, the parties hereto agree to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement as herein set forth.
Existing Credit Agreement
SECTION 1.01. .
Certain Defined Terms
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means a Revolving Credit Advance or a Competitive Bid Advance.
Advance
"" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term "control" (including the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 10% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
"" means (a) in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars, the account of the Agent maintained by JPMCB at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 10 South Dearborn, 7th floor, Chicago, IL 60603, Account number: 9008113381C4086, Attention: Nanette Wilson, (b) in the case of Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency, the account of the Agent designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose and (c) in any such case, such other account of the Agent as is designated in writing from time to time by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders for such purpose.
Agent's Account
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(d).
Agent Parties
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurocurrency Lending Office in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance and, in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance, the office of such
Applicable Lending Office
Lender notified by such Lender to the Agent and the Borrower as its Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance.
"" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
 
"" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Public Debt Rating in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Percentage
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by the Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Assignment and Assumption
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d).
Assuming Lender
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(d).
Assumption Agreement
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next highest 1/100
Base Rate
th
of 1%) equal to the greatest of:
(a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day;
(b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
 1
/
2
of 1%; and
 
(c) the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate applicable to Dollars for a period of one month ("One Month LIBOR") plus 1.00% (for the avoidance of doubt, the One Month LIBOR for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 (or other commercially available source providing such quotations as designated by the Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day).
Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or One Month LIBOR shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or One Month LIBOR, respectively.
"" means a Revolving Credit Advance denominated in Dollars that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
"" means a Revolving Credit Borrowing or a Competitive Bid Borrowing.
Borrowing
"" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London and in the country of issue of the currency of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance (or, in the case of an Advance denominated in Euro, on which the Trans-European Automated Real-Time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) System is open) and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Local Rate Advances on which banks are open for business in the country of issue of the currency of such Local Rate Advance.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement (or, in the case of any Lender that becomes a Lender after the date of this Agreement, the occurrence after the date such Lender becomes a Lender), of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
"" means as to any Lender (a) the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto, (b) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the Dollar amount set forth in such Assumption Agreement or (c) if such Lender has entered into any Assignment and Assumption, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c), as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.05 or increased pursuant to Section 2.18.
Commitment
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Commitment Date
"" means an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.19.
Commitment Extension
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Commitment Increase
"" means lawful currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, lawful currency of The Swiss Federation, lawful currency of Canada, lawful currency of Australia, lawful currency of Japan, and the lawful currency of the European Economic and Monetary Union.
Committed Currencies
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(d)(ii).
Communications
 
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing resulting from the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.03 and refers to a Fixed Rate Advance, a LIBO Rate Advance or a Local Rate Advance.
Competitive Bid Advance
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Competitive Bid Advances from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.03.
Competitive Bid Borrowing
"" means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-2 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from a Competitive Bid Advance made by such Lender.
Competitive Bid Note
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Competitive Bid Reduction
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Consenting Lender
"" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated
"", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than (i) trade and similar accounts payables that do not constitute "Debt" under any other clause in this definition, (ii) accrued expenses arising in the ordinary course of business, employee compensation and pension obligations and other obligations arising from employee benefit agreements and programs, (iii) earn-outs and holdbacks and (iv) customer advances), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all obligations of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (f) all reimbursement obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of acceptances, letters of credit (other than trade letters of credit) or similar extensions of credit, (g) all net obligations of such Person in respect of Hedge Agreements, (h) all Debt of others referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above or clause (i) below guaranteed directly or indirectly in any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (1) to pay or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Debt, (2) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Debt or to assure the holder of such Debt against loss, (3) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (4) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss, that, if the guaranty or other agreement provides for limited recourse to such Person for such Debt, it shall be taken into account only to the extent of such recourse, and (i) all Debt referred to in clauses (a) through (h) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt, that, if such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt, it shall be taken into account only to the extent of the lesser of the outstanding amount of such Debt and the book value or fair market value, whichever is greater, of the property subject to such Lien; , , , that the term "Debt" shall not include (x) obligations incurred in connection with a Permitted Receivables Financing, (y) defeased indebtedness or (z) reimbursement obligations, contingent or otherwise, in respect of letters of credit (other than trade letters of credit) except to the extent such obligations exceed $25,000,000 in the aggregate.
Debt
provided
provided
provided
further
however
 
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States of America, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdiction from time to time in effect.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
"" means, subject to Section 2.20(b), any Lender that (a) has failed to (i) fund all or any portion of its Advances within two Business Days of the date such Advances were required to be funded hereunder unless such Lender notifies the Agent and the Borrower in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding (each of which conditions precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing) has not been satisfied, or (ii) pay to the Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within two Business Days of the date when due, (b) has notified the Borrower or the Agent in writing that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder, or has made a public statement to that effect (unless such writing or public statement relates to such Lender's obligation to fund an Advance hereunder and states that such position is based on such Lender's determination that a condition precedent to funding (which condition precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing or public statement) cannot be satisfied), (c) has made a public statement to the effect that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (d) has failed, within three Business Days after written request by the Agent or the Borrower, to confirm in writing to the Agent and the Borrower that it will comply with its prospective funding obligations hereunder (provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (d) upon receipt of such written confirmation by the Agent and the Borrower), or (e) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or (ii) had appointed for it a receiver, custodian, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or assets, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other state or federal regulatory authority acting in such a capacity; that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority so long as such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Lender with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Lender (or such Governmental Authority) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made with such Lender. Any determination by the Agent that a Lender is or is not a Defaulting Lender under any one or more of clauses (a) through (e) above shall be conclusive and binding absent demonstrable error, and such Lender shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender (subject to Section 2.20(b)) upon delivery of written notice of such determination to the Borrower and each Lender.
Defaulting Lender
provided
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01(b).
Disclosed Litigation
"" means an entity that, pursuant to Treas. Reg.  301.7701-2(c)(2), is disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes as an entity separate from its owner.
Disregarded Entity
"" and the "" sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
"" means, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, net income (or net loss) plus the sum of (a) interest expense, (b) taxes on or measured by income (including franchise taxes imposed in lieu of income taxes), (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization expense, (e) all non-cash losses, expenses
EBITDA
 
and charges, and (f) all extraordinary, non-recurring or unusual cash losses up to an aggregate amount of $50,000,000 per four consecutive fiscal quarters, minus all extraordinary, non-recurring or unusual non-cash gains, all determined in accordance with GAAP for such period. For the purposes of calculating EBITDA for any period, if during such period the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall have made an acquisition or a disposition, EBITDA for such period shall be calculated after giving pro forma effect thereto as if such acquisition or disposition occurred on the first day of such period.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under Section 8.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 8.07(b)(iii)).
Eligible Assignee
"" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health or safety with respect to the environment or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
Environmental Action
"" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial or agency interpretation, policy or guidance relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health or safety with respect to the environment or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
"" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" in Dollars of any Foreign Currency on any date means the equivalent in Dollars of such Foreign Currency determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Foreign Currency in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the "Equivalent" in any Foreign Currency of Dollars means the equivalent in such Foreign Currency of Dollars determined by using the quoted spot rate at which the Agent's principal office in London offers to exchange such Foreign Currency for Dollars in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) (unless otherwise indicated by the terms of this Agreement) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Equivalent
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
"" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrower's controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such Section) are met with a contributing sponsor, as defined in
ERISA Event
 
Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 303(k) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (g) a determination is made that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA); or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
"" means the lawful currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty of Rome which established the European Community, as such treaty may be amended from time to time and as referred to in the EMU Legislation.
Euro
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurocurrency Lending Office" in its Administrative Questionnaire delivered to the Agent, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent.
Eurocurrency Lending Office
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
"" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum) appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency is offered by the principal office of JPMCB in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to JPMCB's Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period. If the Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) is unavailable, the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates.
Eurocurrency Rate
"" means a Revolving Credit Advance denominated in Dollars or a Committed Currency that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii).
Eurocurrency Rate Advance
"" for any Interest Period for all Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with
Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage
 
respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Events of Default
"" has the meaning specified in the preliminary statement to this Agreement.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Extension Date
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Internal Revenue Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means Fitch, Inc.
Fitch
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a)(i), which Advances shall be denominated in Dollars or in any Foreign Currency.
Fixed Rate Advances
"" means any Committed Currency and any other lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is freely transferable or convertible into Dollars.
Foreign Currency
"" means any Person (other than a natural Person) that is or will be engaged in the making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
"" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic or as a pollutant or contaminant under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means interest rate swap, cap or collar agreements, interest rate future or option contracts, currency swap agreements, currency future or option contracts and other similar agreements.
Hedge Agreements
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(a).
Increase Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.18(b).
Increasing Lender
"" has the meaning specified in Section 7.05.
Indemnified Costs
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.04(b).
Indemnified Party
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.08.
Information
"" means the information memorandum dated October 2011 used by the Agent and the Lead Arrangers in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
"" means, for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing and each LIBO Rate Advance comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurocurrency Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, and subject to clause (c) of this definition, nine months or such other period requested by the Borrower, as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
(a) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the final Termination Date;
(b) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing or for LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
(c) in the case of any such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Borrower shall not be entitled to select an Interest Period having a duration of other than one, two, three or six months unless, by 3:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, each Lender notifies the Agent that such Lender will be providing funding for such Revolving Credit Borrowing with such Interest Period (the failure of any Lender to so respond by such time being deemed for all purposes of this Agreement as an objection by such Lender to the requested duration of such Interest Period); that, if any or all of the Lenders object to the requested duration of such Interest Period, the duration of the Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be one, two, three or six months, as specified by the Borrower requesting such Revolving Credit Borrowing in the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing as the desired alternative to such requested Interest Period;
provided
(d) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, , , that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and
provided
however
(e) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means the Initial Lenders, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.18, 2.19 or 2.21 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.07 (excluding, in each case, any Person that ceases to be a Lender in accordance with the terms of this Agreement).
Lenders
"" means, for any Interest Period for all LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the rate per annum obtained by dividing (a) the rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum) appearing on the Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars or the applicable Committed Currency at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period or, if for any reason such rate is not available, the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars or the applicable Foreign Currency is offered by the principal office of JPMCB in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to the amount that would be JPMCB's respective ratable shares of such Borrowing if such Borrowing were to be a Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period by (b) a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage for such Interest Period. If the Reuters LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) is unavailable, the LIBO Rate for any Interest Period for each LIBO Rate Advance comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates.
LIBO Rate
"" means a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in Dollars or in any Foreign Currency and bearing interest based on the LIBO Rate.
LIBO Rate Advances
"" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of similar preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor (excluding operating leases) and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
Lien
"" means this Agreement and the Notes, if any.
Loan Documents
"" means a Competitive Bid Advance denominated in any Foreign Currency sourced from the jurisdiction of issuance of such Foreign Currency and bearing interest at a fixed rate.
Local Rate Advance
"" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with Schedule 1.01.
Mandatory Cost
"" means any material adverse change in the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or properties of the Borrower or the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Change
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, condition (financial or otherwise), operations, performance or properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender against the Borrower under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Note.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means any Subsidiary of the Borrower having, as of the end of the Borrower's most recently completed fiscal year, (a) assets (after elimination of intercompany assets) with a book value of not less than 10% of the total book value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or (b) gross revenue (after elimination of intercompany revenues) of not less than 10% of the total (gross) revenue of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Subsidiary
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19(b).
Non-Consenting Lender
"" means, at any time, a Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender at such time.
Non-Defaulting Lender
"" means (i) a Lender that is neither a Disregarded Entity nor a U.S. Person, and (ii) a Lender that is a Disregarded Entity and that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having as its sole member a Person that is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Lender
"" means a Revolving Credit Note or a Competitive Bid Note.
Note
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a).
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Base Rate".
One Month LIBOR
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(c).
Other Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 8.07(d).
Participant
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(c).
Participation Register
"" means, for any Foreign Currency, such office of JPMCB as shall be from time to time selected by the Agent and notified by the Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Payment Office
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor).
PBGC
"" means such of the following as to which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding shall have been commenced: (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies if the same shall not be delinquent for more than 60 days or thereafter can be paid without penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by appropriate action and for which appropriate reserves are being maintained; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', landlord's, workmen's and repairmen's Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary
Permitted Liens
 
course of business securing obligations that are either (i) not overdue for a period of more than 90 days or (ii) are being contested in good faith and by appropriate action and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained; (c) Liens to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, or other social security or retirement benefits, or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; and (d) easements, restrictions, rights of way, minor defects or irregularities in title and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not render title to the property encumbered thereby unmarketable or materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes.
"" means any financing pursuant to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to a Receivables Subsidiary or any other Person, or grant a security interest in, any accounts receivable, general intangibles, chattel paper or other financial assets (and related rights and assets) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary or Subsidiaries, that such financing shall be with limited or no recourse to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) except to the extent customary (in the reasonable judgment of the Borrower) for such transactions.
Permitted Receivables Financing
provided
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
"" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.02(d).
Platform
"" means the rate of interest announced publicly by JPMCB in New York, New York, from time to time, as JPMCB's prime rate.
Prime Rate
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.11(c).
Primary Currency
"" means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Borrower (or if no such rating is then in effect with respect to such debt, then the corporate, issuer or similar rating with respect to the Borrower that has been most recently announced by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be) or, if any such rating agency shall have issued more than one such rating, the lowest such rating issued by such rating agency. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the available rating; (b) if none of S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage will be set in accordance with Level 5 under the definition of "Applicable Margin", or "Applicable Percentage", as the case may be; (c) if the Borrower is rated by all three rating agencies and the ratings established by each of S&P, Moody's and Fitch shall fall within three different levels, the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based upon the intermediate level; (d) if the Borrower is rated by all three rating agencies and two out of the three ratings of S&P, Moody's and Fitch are at the same level, then the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based on such level, (e) if only two ratings from S&P, Moody's and Fitch are available and such ratings fall within different levels, then the Applicable Margin and the Applicable Percentage shall be based on the higher rating unless such ratings differ by two or more levels, in which case the applicable rating level will be deemed to be one level below the higher of such levels, (f) if any rating established by S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; (g) if S&P, Moody's or Fitch shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P, Moody's or Fitch, as the case may be (and if there is no such equivalent rating, to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change), and (h) if any such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt
Public Debt Rating
 
obligations, the Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of such amendment, the Applicable Margin and Applicable Percentage shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such cessation.
"" of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of such amount times a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender's Commitment at such time (or, if the Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, such Lender's Commitment as in effect immediately prior to such termination) and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of all Commitments at such time (or, if the Commitments shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01, the aggregate amount of all Commitments as in effect immediately prior to such termination).
Ratable Share
"" means a bankruptcy remote, special purpose wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower (or another wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower) formed in connection with a Permitted Receivables Financing.
Receivables Subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(c).
Register
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, administrators, managers, advisors and representatives of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means each of the following: (a) the Borrower, (b) any Subsidiary of the Borrower or (c) any employee benefit plan of the Borrower or of any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any Person organized, appointed or established by the Borrower for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan.
Related Person
"" means at any time Lenders owed at least a majority in interest of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount (based on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to the Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Commitments; that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time the Commitments or the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances, as applicable, of such Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
"" has the meaning specified in Section 7.07(b).
Removal Effective Date
"" has the meaning specified in Section 7.07(a).
Resignation Effective Date
"" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurocurrency Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Revolving Credit Advance).
Revolving Credit Advance
Type
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Revolving Credit Borrowing
"" means a promissory note of the Borrower payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.16 in substantially the form of Exhibit A-1 hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender.
Revolving Credit Note
"" means Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
 
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
"" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(a).
Taxes
"" means the earlier of (a) December 8, 2016, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.19 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01; , , that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be the Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement.
Termination Date
provided
however
"" means a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code.
U.S. Person
"" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
SECTION 1.02. . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding".
Computation of Time Periods
SECTION 1.03. . Except as provided to the contrary herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted and all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"); that for purposes of determining compliance with any covenant (including the financial covenants set forth in Section 5.03, but excluding any covenant regarding the delivery or preparation of financial statements), whether a lease constitutes a capital lease, and whether obligations arising under such lease are required to be capitalized on the balance sheet of the lessee thereunder and/or recognized as interest expense in such lessee's financial statements, shall be determined in accordance with GAAP as in effect on the date of this Agreement, notwithstanding any modification or interpretive change thereto that may occur thereafter; that any calculation or determination which is to be made on a consolidated basis shall be made for the Borrower and all of its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Accounting Terms
provided
provided
further
If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and the Borrower, the Agent or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders), that, until so amended, such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP without giving effect to such change therein and the Borrower shall provide to the Agent and the Lenders reconciliation statements showing the difference in such calculation, together with the delivery of any financial statements required hereunder.
provided
 
SECTION 1.04. . (a) Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (i) references to agreements (including this Agreement) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent such amendments and other modifications are not prohibited by the terms of any Loan Document, (ii) references to any statute or regulation are to be construed as including all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting the statute or regulation and (iii) any reference herein or in any other Loan Document to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (subject to any restrictions upon assignment set forth herein or in any other Loan Document).
Interpretation
(b) The captions and headings of this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
SECTION 1.05. . (a) The Borrower may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Advances be made in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Committed Currency;" provided that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Agent and all of the Lenders.
Additional Alternative Currencies
Any such request shall be made to the Agent not later than 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) 20 Business Days prior to the date of the desired Advance (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Agent in its sole discretion). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Advances) shall notify the Agent, not later than 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) 10 Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Advances in such requested currency.
Any failure by a Lender to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender to permit Eurocurrency Rate Advances to be made in such requested currency. If the Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Advances in such requested currency, the Agent shall so notify the Borrower and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be a Committed Currency hereunder. If the Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this Section 1.05, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Borrower.
SECTION 2.01. . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Revolving Credit Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender in an aggregate amount (based in respect of any Revolving Credit Advances to be denominated in a Committed Currency on the Equivalent in Dollars determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing) not to exceed at any time outstanding such Lender's Commitment, that the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders shall be deemed used from time to time to the extent of the aggregate amount (based in respect of any Competitive Bid Advance denominated in a Foreign Currency on the Equivalent in Dollars at such time) of the Competitive Bid Advances then outstanding and such deemed use of the aggregate amount of the Commitments shall be allocated among the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments (such deemed use of the aggregate amount of the Commitments being a ""). Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or the Equivalent thereof in any Committed Currency determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing) and shall consist of Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01, prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01.
The Revolving Credit Advances
provided
Competitive Bid Reduction
 
SECTION 2.02. . (a) Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than (x) 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (y) 12:00 P.M. (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, or (z) 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the first Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier. Each such notice of a Revolving Credit Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, initial Interest Period and currency for each such Revolving Credit Advance. Each Lender shall, before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Advances denominated in Dollars, and before 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in any Committed Currency, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Agent's address referred to in Section 8.02(a) or at the applicable Payment Office, as the case may be.
Making the Revolving Credit Advances
Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing
(b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not select Eurocurrency Rate Advances for any Revolving Credit Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing is less than $10,000,000 or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12 and (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than ten separate Revolving Credit Borrowings.
(c) Each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that the related Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing for such Revolving Credit Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing when such Revolving Credit Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
(d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to Revolving Credit Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, (A) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (B) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Committed Currencies. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Revolving Credit Advance as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(e) The failure of any Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it as part of any Revolving Credit Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing.
SECTION 2.03. . (a) Each Lender severally agrees that the Borrower may make Competitive Bid Borrowings under this Section 2.03 from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the date occurring 30 days prior to the final Termination Date in the manner set forth below; that, following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Advances then outstanding (based in respect of any Advance denominated in a Foreign Currency on the Equivalent in Dollars at the time such Competitive Bid Borrowing is requested) shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders (computed without regard to any Competitive Bid Reduction); that following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Advances then outstanding (based in respect of any Advance denominated in a Foreign Currency on the Equivalent in Dollars at the time such Competitive Bid Borrowing is requested) shall not exceed the aggregate amount of one third of the Commitments of the Lenders (computed without regard to any Competitive Bid Reduction).
The Competitive Bid Advances
provided
provided further
(i) The Borrower may request a Competitive Bid Borrowing under this Section 2.03 by delivering to the Agent, by telecopier, a notice of a Competitive Bid Borrowing (a ""), in substantially the form of Exhibit B-2 hereto, specifying therein the requested (A) date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, (B) aggregate amount of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, (C) interest rate basis and day count convention to be offered by the Lenders, (D) currency of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, (E) in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances, Interest Period, or in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Fixed Rate Advances or Local Rate Advances, maturity date for repayment of each Fixed Rate Advance or Local Rate Advance to be made as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing (which maturity date may not be earlier than the date occurring seven days after the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing or later than the earlier of (I) 180 days after the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing and (II) the final Termination Date), (F) interest payment date or dates relating thereto, (G) location of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be advanced and (H) other terms (if any) to be applicable to such Competitive Bid Borrowing, not later than (w) 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) at least two Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if the Borrower shall specify in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing that the rates of interest to be offered by the Lenders shall be fixed rates per annum (the Advances comprising any such Competitive Bid Borrowing being referred to herein as "") and that the Advances comprising such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be denominated in Dollars, (x) 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) at least four Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if the Borrower shall specify in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing that the Advances comprising such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be LIBO Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (y) 12:00 P.M. (London time) at least two Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if the Borrower shall specify in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing that the Advances comprising such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be either Fixed Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency or Local Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency and (z) 12:00 P.M. (London time) at least four Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if the Borrower shall instead specify in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing that the Advances comprising such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be LIBO Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency. The Agent shall in turn promptly notify each Lender of each request for a Competitive Bid Borrowing received by it from the Borrower by sending such Lender a copy of the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing.
Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing
Fixed Rate Advances
(ii) Each Lender may, if, in its sole discretion, it elects to do so, irrevocably offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances to the Borrower as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing at a rate or rates of interest specified by such Lender in its sole discretion, by notifying the Agent (which shall give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower), (A) before 9:30 A.M. (New York City
 
time) on the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Fixed Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (B) before 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances, denominated in Dollars, (C) before 12:00 noon (London time) on the Business Day prior to the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of either Fixed Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency or Local Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency and (D) before 12:00 noon (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency, of the minimum amount and maximum amount of each Competitive Bid Advance which such Lender would be willing to make as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing (which amounts or the Equivalent thereof in Dollars, as the case may be, of such proposed Competitive Bid may, subject to the provisos to the first sentence of this Section 2.03(a), exceed such Lender's Commitment, if any), the rate or rates of interest therefor and such Lender's Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance; that if the Agent in its capacity as a Lender shall, in its sole discretion, elect to make any such offer, it shall notify the Borrower of such offer at least 30 minutes before the time and on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent by the other Lenders. If any Lender shall elect not to make such an offer, such Lender shall so notify the Agent before 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent by the other Lenders, and such Lender shall not be obligated to, and shall not, make any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing; that the failure by any Lender to give such notice shall not cause such Lender to be obligated to make any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing.
provided
provided
(iii) The Borrower shall, in turn, (A) before 10:30 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Fixed Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (B) before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances denominated in Dollars, (C) before 3:00 P.M. (London time) on the Business Day prior to the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of either Fixed Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency or Local Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency and (D) before 3:00 P.M. (London time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances denominated in any Foreign Currency, either:
(x) cancel such Competitive Bid Borrowing by giving the Agent notice to that effect, or
(y) accept one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (ii) above, in its sole discretion, by giving notice to the Agent of the amount of each Competitive Bid Advance (which amount shall be equal to or greater than the minimum amount, and equal to or less than the maximum amount, notified to the Borrower by the Agent on behalf of such Lender for such Competitive Bid Advance pursuant to paragraph (ii) above) to be made by each Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, and reject any remaining offers made by Lenders pursuant to paragraph (ii) above by giving the Agent notice to that effect. The Borrower shall accept the offers made by any Lender or Lenders to make Competitive Bid Advances in order of the lowest to the highest rates of interest offered by such Lenders. If two or more Lenders have offered the same interest rate, the amount to be borrowed at such interest rate will be allocated among such Lenders in proportion to the amount that each such Lender offered at such interest rate.
 
(iv) If the Borrower notifies the Agent that such Competitive Bid Borrowing is cancelled pursuant to paragraph (iii)(x) above, the Agent shall give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not be made.
(v) If the Borrower accepts one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (iii)(y) above, the Agent shall in turn promptly notify (A) each Lender that has made an offer as described in paragraph (ii) above, of the date and aggregate amount of such Competitive Bid Borrowing and whether or not any offer or offers made by such Lender pursuant to paragraph (ii) above have been accepted by the Borrower, (B) each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, of the amount of each Competitive Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, and (C) each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, upon receipt, that the Agent has received forms of documents appearing to fulfill the applicable conditions set forth in Article III. Each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall, before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time), in the case of Competitive Bid Advances to be denominated in Dollars or 11:00 A.M. (London time), in the case of Competitive Bid Advances to be denominated in any Foreign Currency, on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing specified in the notice received from the Agent pursuant to clause (A) of the preceding sentence or any later time when such Lender shall have received notice from the Agent pursuant to clause (C) of the preceding sentence, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent (x) in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing denominated in Dollars, at its address referred to in Section 8.02(a), in same day funds, such Lender's portion of such Competitive Bid Borrowing in Dollars and (y) in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing in a Foreign Currency, at the Payment Office for such Foreign Currency as shall have been notified by the Agent to the Lenders prior thereto, in same day funds, such Lender's portion of such Competitive Bid Borrowing in such Foreign Currency. Upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III and after receipt by the Agent of such funds, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the location specified by the Borrower in its Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. Promptly after each Competitive Bid Borrowing the Agent will notify each Lender of the amount of the Competitive Bid Borrowing, the consequent Competitive Bid Reduction and the dates upon which such Competitive Bid Reduction commenced and will terminate.
(vi) If the Borrower notifies the Agent that it accepts one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (iii)(y) above, such notice of acceptance shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing for such Competitive Bid Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Competitive Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing when such Competitive Bid Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
(b) Each Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 (or the Equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency, determined as of the time of the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing) or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 (or the Equivalent thereof in any Foreign Currency, determined as of the time of the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing) in excess thereof and, following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Borrower shall be in compliance with the limitations set forth in the provisos to the first sentence of subsection (a) above.
(c) Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this Section 2.03, the Borrower may from time to time borrow under this Section 2.03, repay or prepay pursuant to subsection (d) below, and reborrow under this Section 2.03, that a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not be made within three Business Days of the date of any other Competitive Bid Borrowing.
provided
 
(d) The Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the account of each Lender that has made a Competitive Bid Advance, on the maturity date of each Competitive Bid Advance (such maturity date being that specified by the Borrower for repayment of such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above and provided in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance), the then unpaid principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance. The Borrower shall have no right to prepay any principal amount of any Competitive Bid Advance unless, and then only on the terms, specified by the Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above and set forth in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance.
(e) The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance from the date of such Competitive Bid Advance to the date the principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance is repaid in full, at the rate of interest for such Competitive Bid Advance specified by the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance in its notice with respect thereto delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) above, payable on the interest payment date or dates specified by the Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above, as provided in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Borrower shall pay interest on the amount of unpaid principal of and interest on each Competitive Bid Advance owing to a Lender, payable in arrears on the date or dates interest is payable thereon, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Competitive Bid Advance under the terms of the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance unless otherwise agreed in such Competitive Bid Note.
(f) The indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each Competitive Bid Advance made to the Borrower as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be evidenced by a separate Competitive Bid Note of the Borrower payable to the order of the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance.
SECTION 2.04. . (a) . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee on the aggregate amount of such Lender's Commitment from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the later of the Effective Date and the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date applicable to such Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing March 31, 2012, and on the final Termination Date; that, during the period that a Lender is a Defaulting Lender, such facility fee shall not accrue with respect to any unused Commitments of such Lender.
Fees
Facility Fee
provided
(b) . The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Agent's Fees
SECTION 2.05. . The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice (which notice may be contingent upon the closing of replacement financing) to the Agent, to terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the unused portions of the respective Commitments of the Lenders, that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and that the aggregate amount of the Commitments of the Lenders shall not be reduced to an amount that is less than the aggregate principal amount of the Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus the Equivalent in Dollars (determined as of the date of the notice of prepayment) of the aggregate principal amount of the Competitive Bid Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies then outstanding.
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
provided
provided further
SECTION 2.06. . The Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the account of each Lender on the Termination Date applicable to such Lender the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender and then outstanding.
Repayment of Revolving Credit Advances
SECTION 2.07. . (a) . The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance owing to each Lender from the
Interest on Revolving Credit Advances
Scheduled Interest
 
date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
(i) . During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Base Rate Advances
plus
(ii) . During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance to the sum of (w) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance (x) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time (y) without duplication of amounts paid pursuant to Section 2.11, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State the Mandatory Cost, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
Eurocurrency Rate Advances
plus
plus
(b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Agent may with the consent, and shall upon the request, of the Required Lenders, require the Borrower to pay interest ("") on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Revolving Credit Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder that is not paid when due, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 2% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above , , that following acceleration of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.01, Default Interest shall accrue and be payable hereunder whether or not previously required by the Agent.
Default Interest
Default Interest
provided
however
SECTION 2.08. . (a) The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i) or (ii).
Interest Rate Determination
(b) If, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London inter-bank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective Revolving Credit Advances as a part of such Borrowing during its Interest Period or (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurocurrency Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (A) the Borrower will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (1) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (2) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) exchange such Advances into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist (which notice shall be given promptly after such circumstances cease to exist); that, if the circumstances set forth in clause (ii) above are applicable, the Borrower may elect, by notice to the Agent and the Lenders, to continue such Advances in such Committed Currency for Interest Periods of not longer than one month, which Advances shall thereafter bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Margin plus, for each Lender, the cost to such Lender (expressed as a rate per annum) of funding its Eurocurrency Rate Advances by whatever means it reasonably determines to be appropriate. Each Lender shall certify its cost of funds for each
provided
 
Interest Period to the Agent and the Borrower as soon as practicable (but in any event not later than ten Business Days after the first day of such Interest Period).
(c) If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Advances having an interest period of one month.
(d) On the date on which the aggregate unpaid principal amount of Eurocurrency Rate Advances comprising any Borrowing shall be reduced, by payment or prepayment or otherwise, to less than $10,000,000, such Advances shall automatically (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, Convert into Base Rate Advances and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in a Committed Currency, be exchanged for an Equivalent amount of Dollars and Convert into Base Rate Advances.
(e) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, (A) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in Dollars, be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (B) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advances are denominated in any Committed Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended; that Borrower may elect, by notice to the Agent and the Lenders within one Business Day of such Event of Default, to continue such Advances in such Committed Currency, whereupon the Agent may require that each Interest Period relating to such Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall bear interest at the Overnight Eurocurrency Rate for a period of three Business Days and thereafter, each such Interest Period shall have a duration of not longer than one month. "" means the rate per annum applicable to an overnight period beginning on one Business Day and ending on the next Business Day equal to the sum of 1%, the Applicable Margin and the average, rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100
provided
Overnight Eurocurrency Rate
th
of 1%, if such average is not such a multiple, of the respective rates per annum quoted by JPMCB as the rate at which it is offering overnight deposits in the relevant currency in amounts comparable to JPMCB's Eurocurrency Rate Advances.
SECTION 2.09. . The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Dollars of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Dollars of the other Type; , , that any Conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Advances into Base Rate Advances shall be made only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Advances, any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Revolving Credit Advances shall result in more separate Revolving Credit Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b). Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Dollar denominated Revolving Credit Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurocurrency Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.
Optional Conversion of Revolving Credit Advances
provided
however
SECTION 2.10. . (a) . The Borrower may, upon notice not later than 12:00 P.M. (New York time) with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in Dollars and not later than 12:00 P.M. (London time) with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Advances denominated in a Foreign Currency at least two Business Days' prior to the date of such prepayment, and not later than 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such prepayment, in the case of Base Rate Advances, to the Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing in whole or ratably in part without premium or penalty, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment shall, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Advances, be in an aggregate principal amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or the Equivalent thereof in a Committed Currency (determined on the date notice of
Prepayments of Revolving Credit Advances
Optional
provided
however
 
prepayment is given) or, in the case of Base Rate Advances, be in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or the Equivalent thereof in a Committed Currency (determined on the date notice of prepayment is given) and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c).
(b) . (i) If the Agent notifies the Borrower that, on any interest payment date, the sum of (A) the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Dollars then outstanding plus (B) the Equivalent in Dollars (determined on the third Business Day prior to such interest payment date) of the aggregate principal amount of all Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies then outstanding exceeds 103% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date, the Borrower shall, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, prepay the outstanding principal amount of any Advances owing by the Borrower in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such sum to an amount not to exceed 100% of the aggregate Commitments of the Lenders on such date.
Mandatory Prepayments
(ii) Each prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.10(b) shall be made together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Advance, a LIBO Rate Advance or a Local Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period or at its maturity, any additional amounts which the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse to the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c). The Agent shall give prompt notice of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) to the Borrower and the Lenders.
SECTION 2.11. . (a) If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation (including, but not limited to, any changes resulting in the failure of the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, to represent the cost to any Lender of complying with the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Advances) or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request issued by any central bank or other Governmental Authority including, without limitation, any agency of the European Union or similar monetary or multinational authority after the date hereof (whether or not having the force of law) there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern), (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or is otherwise subject to tax), (iii) FATCA or (iv) any reserve requirement of the type described in the definition of "Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage"), then the Borrower shall from time to time, within 30 days of demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost. A certificate in reasonable detail as to the amount and computation of such increased cost, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender contemporaneously with the demand for payment, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
(b) If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other Governmental Authority (whether or not having the force of law, but excluding any reserve requirement of the type described in the definition of "Eurocurrency Rate Reserve Percentage") affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, then, within 30 days of demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation in the light of such circumstances, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder. A certificate in reasonable detail as to such amounts together with the computation thereof submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender contemporaneously with the demand for payment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(c) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section 2.11 shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the
provided
 
Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section 2.11 for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than 120 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor and of the amount of such compensation (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 120 day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
(d) For the avoidance of doubt, for the purposes of this Section 2.11, with respect to capital adequacy, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, regulations, guidelines, interpretations or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith (whether or not having the force of law) and (y) all requests, rules, regulations, guidelines, interpretations or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities (whether or not having the force of law), in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a Change in Law regardless of the date enacted, adopted, issued, promulgated or implemented.
SECTION 2.12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent and the Borrower that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other Governmental Authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurocurrency Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency or LIBO Rate Advances in Dollars or any Foreign Currency or to fund or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Advances in Dollars or any Committed Currency or LIBO Rate Advances in Dollars or any Foreign Currency hereunder, (a) each Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance, as the case may be, will automatically, upon such demand, (i) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance is denominated in Dollars, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance or an Advance that bears interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.07(a)(i), as the case may be, and (ii) if such Eurocurrency Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance is denominated in any Foreign Currency, be exchanged into an Equivalent amount of Dollars and be Converted into a Base Rate Advance or an Advance that bears interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.07(a)(i), as the case may be, and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist (which notice shall be given promptly after such circumstances cease to exist).
Illegality
SECTION 2.13. . (a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder, except with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Foreign Currency, not later than 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the day when due in Dollars to the Agent at the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds. The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder with respect to principal of, interest on, and other amounts relating to, Advances denominated in a Foreign Currency, not later than 12:00 P.M. (at the Payment Office for such Foreign Currency) on the day when due in such Foreign Currency to the Agent, by deposit of such funds to the applicable Agent's Account in same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or facility fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.03, 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(c) and other than as otherwise provided herein with respect to Defaulting Lenders) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18, an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.19 or the addition of a Lender pursuant to Section 2.21, and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date, as the case may be, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Assumption and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Assumption, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Assumption shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Payments and Computations
 
(b) The Borrower hereby authorizes each Lender during the continuance of an Event of Default, if and to the extent payment owed to such Lender is not made when due hereunder or under the Note held by such Lender, to charge from time to time against any or all of the Borrower's accounts with such Lender any amount so due. Each Lender that charges an account of the Borrower in accordance with this Section agrees to promptly so notify the Borrower, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such charge.
provided
(c) All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, all computations of interest based on the Eurocurrency Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or One Month LIBOR and of facility fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, except in the case of British Pounds which shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 days, and computations in respect of Competitive Bid Advances shall be made by the Agent as specified in the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing (or, in each case of Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies where market practice differs, in accordance with market practice), in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or facility fees are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or facility fee, as the case may be; , , that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurocurrency Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
provided
however
(e) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at (i) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in the case of Advances denominated in Dollars or (ii) the cost of funds incurred by the Agent in respect of such amount in the case of Advances denominated in Foreign Currencies.
SECTION 2.14. . (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under the Notes shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto (all of the foregoing, , (i) in the case of each Lender and the Agent, (1) taxes imposed on all or a portion of its overall net income, (2) franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, (3) any branch profits taxes imposed, and (4) any taxes on the capital or net worth imposed in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdictions in which such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) is otherwise subject to tax and (ii) any United States withholding tax imposed under FATCA, ""). If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
excluding
Taxes
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
 
(c) The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, taxes of any kind imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in connection with this Agreement or the Notes, and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses not incurred by reason of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of such Lender or the Agent) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor.
(d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02(a), the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing (or other sufficient evidence of) such payment. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes by or on behalf of the Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of the Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel as requested by and acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms "" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code.
United States
(e) (i) Each Lender, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as requested in writing by the Borrower, shall provide each of the Agent and the Borrower with two duly completed and executed copies of the IRS Forms and other documentation described below:
(A) in the case of a Lender other than a Non-U.S. Lender, IRS Form W-9 certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. Federal backup withholding tax;
(B) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party (1) with respect to payments of interest under any Loan Document, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding tax pursuant to the "interest" article of such tax treaty and (2) with respect to any other applicable payments under this Agreement, IRS Form W-8BEN establishing an exemption from, or reduction of, U.S. federal withholding tax pursuant to the "business profits" or "other income" article of such tax treaty;
(C) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender for whom payments under this Agreement constitute income that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States by such Lender (or, in the event that such Lender is a Disregarded Entity, by the owner of such Lender), IRS Form W-8ECI;
(D) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code both (1) IRS Form W-8BEN and (2) a certificate (a "U.S. Tax Certificate") to the effect that such Lender (or, in the event that such Lender is a Disregarded Entity, the owner of such Lender) is not (a) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (b) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code (c) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code and (d) conducting a trade or business in the United States with which the relevant interest payments are effectively connected; or
(E) in the case of a Non-U.S. Lender (or, in the event that the Non-U.S. Lender is a Disregarded Entity, the owner of such Non-U.S. Lender) that (for U.S. federal income tax purposes) is not the beneficial owner of payments made under a Loan Document (including a partnership or a participating Lender) (1) an IRS Form W-8IMY on behalf of itself and (2) the relevant forms prescribed in clauses (A), (B), (C), and (D) above that would be required of each such beneficial owner or partner of such partnership if such beneficial owner or partner were a Lender; provided, however, that if the Lender is a partnership and one or more of its partners are claiming the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, such Lender may provide a U.S. Tax Certificate on behalf of such partners.
 
(ii) If the IRS Form provided by a Lender at the time such Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicates a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such Form; , , that, if at the date of the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date. If any IRS Form or certification previously delivered pursuant to this Section expires or becomes obsolete or inaccurate in any respect with respect to a Lender, such Lender shall promptly (and in any event within 10 days after such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy) notify the Borrower and the Agent in writing of such expiration, obsolescence or inaccuracy and update the Form or certification, unless any change in treaty, law or regulation has occurred after the date such Lender becomes a party hereunder which renders such IRS Form or certification inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such IRS Form or certification with respect to it and such Lender so advises the Borrower and the Agent. If any IRS Form or other document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by the particular IRS Form, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information.
provided
however
(iii) If a payment made to a Lender would be subject to United States federal withholding tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower, at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower, such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested in writing by the Borrower as may be necessary for the Borrower to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. For purposes of this Section 2.14(e)(ii) FATCA shall include any Treasury regulations or interpretations thereof and all amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(f) Each Initial Lender hereby confirms as of the Effective Date, and each other Lender confirms as of the effective date of the Assignment and Assumption or Assumption Agreement pursuant to which it becomes a party hereto, in favor of the Agent and the Borrower that either (i) such Lender is not resident in the United Kingdom and is beneficially entitled to the Advances and the interest thereon or (ii) it is a bank as defined for the purposes of Section 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act of 1988 of the United Kingdom and is beneficially entitled to the Advances and the interest thereon, and each Lender agrees to notify the Agent if there is any change in its position from that set forth in this clause (f).
(g) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form described in Section 2.14(e) ( if such failure is due to a change in law occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided, or if such form otherwise is not required under subsection (e) above), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.14(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes or withholding taxes under FATCA imposed by the United States by reason of such failure; , , that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes.
other
than
provided
however
(h) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.14 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Eurocurrency Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce
 
the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
SECTION 2.15. . If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14, 2.20 or 8.04(c) and other than as otherwise provided herein with respect to Defaulting Lenders) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Revolving Credit Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Revolving Credit Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
however
SECTION 2.16. . (a) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Revolving Credit Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Revolving Credit Advances. The Borrower agrees that upon notice by any Lender to the Borrower (with a copy of such notice to the Agent) to the effect that a Revolving Credit Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of a permitted pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Revolving Credit Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, the Borrower shall promptly execute and deliver to such Lender a Revolving Credit Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment of such Lender.
Evidence of Debt
(b) The Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(c) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded (i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the terms of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Assumption delivered to and accepted by it, (iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iv) the amount of any sum received by the Agent from the Borrower hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
(c) Entries made in good faith by the Agent in the Register pursuant to subsection (b) above, and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to subsection (a) above, shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent demonstrable error; , , that the failure of the Agent or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
however
SECTION 2.17. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) solely to finance acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Use of Proceeds
SECTION 2.18. . (a) The Borrower may, from time to time, by notice to the Agent, request that the aggregate amount of the Commitment be increased by an amount of $25,000,000 or an integral multiple thereof (each a "") to be effective as of a date that is at least 90 days prior to the scheduled final Termination Date then in effect (the "") as specified in the related notice to the Agent; , that (i) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Commitments at any time exceed the aggregate amount of the Commitments as of the date hereof plus $250,000,000 and (ii) on the
Increase in the Aggregate Commitments
Commitment Increase
Increase Date
provided
however
 
date of any request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase and on the related Increase Date the applicable conditions set forth in Article III shall be satisfied.
(b) The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of a request by the Borrower for a Commitment Increase, which notice shall include (i) the proposed amount of such requested Commitment Increase, (ii) the proposed Increase Date and (iii) the date by which Lenders wishing to participate in the Commitment Increase must commit to an increase in the amount of their respective Commitments, which shall be at least five Business Days prior to the Increase Date (the ""). Each Lender that is willing to participate in such requested Commitment Increase (each an "") shall, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent on or prior to the Commitment Date of the amount by which it is willing to increase its Commitment. If the Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to increase the amount of their respective Commitments by an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the requested Commitment Increase, the requested Commitment Increase shall be allocated among the Lenders willing to participate therein in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent.
Commitment Date
Increasing Lender
(c) Promptly following each Commitment Date, the Agent shall notify the Borrower as to the amount, if any, by which the Lenders are willing to participate in the requested Commitment Increase. If the aggregate amount by which the Lenders are willing to participate in any requested Commitment Increase on any such Commitment Date is less than the requested Commitment Increase, then the Borrower may extend offers to one or more Eligible Assignees to participate in any portion of the requested Commitment Increase that has not been committed to by the Lenders as of the applicable Commitment Date; , , that the Commitment of each such Eligible Assignee shall be in an amount of $10,000,000 or more. The Borrower, at its discretion, may withdraw its request for a Commitment Increase at any time prior to the Increase Date.
provided
however
(d) On each Increase Date, each Eligible Assignee that accepts an offer to participate in a requested Commitment Increase in accordance with Section 2.18(b) (each such Eligible Assignee, each Eligible Assignee that agrees to an extension of the Termination Date in accordance with Section 2.19(c) and each Eligible Assignee that becomes a party hereto pursuant to Section 2.21, an "") shall become a Lender party to this Agreement as of such Increase Date and the Commitment of each Increasing Lender for such requested Commitment Increase shall be so increased by such amount (or by the amount allocated to such Lender pursuant to the last sentence of Section 2.18(b)) as of such Increase Date; , , that the Agent shall have received on or before such Increase Date the following, each dated such date:
Assuming Lender
provided
however
(i) (A) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower or the Executive Committee of such Board approving the Commitment Increase and the corresponding modifications to this Agreement and (B) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto;
(ii) an assumption agreement from each Assuming Lender, if any, in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent (each an ""), duly executed by such Eligible Assignee, the Agent and the Borrower; and
Assumption Agreement
(iii) confirmation from each Increasing Lender of the increase in the amount of its Commitment in a writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent.
On each Increase Date, upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth in Section 3.02 and in the immediately preceding sentence of this Section 2.18(d), the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) and the Borrower, on or before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time), by telecopier, of the occurrence of the Commitment Increase to be effected on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender on such date. Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Increase Date, purchase at par that portion of outstanding Revolving Credit Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Revolving Credit Advances to be funded and held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Shares (excluding the Commitments of Defaulting Lenders).
 
SECTION 2.19. . (a) At least 30 days but not more than 45 days prior to any or all of the first, second, third or fourth anniversaries of the Effective Date, the Borrower, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date in effect at such time by one year from its then scheduled expiration. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, not later than 20 days prior to such anniversary date, notify the Borrower and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension. If any Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and the Borrower in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termination Date at least 20 days prior to the applicable anniversary date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request. The Agent shall notify the Borrower not later than 15 days prior to the applicable anniversary date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Borrower's request for an extension of the Termination Date.
Extension of Termination Date
(b) If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable anniversary date (the ""), be extended for one year; that on each Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Article III shall be satisfied. If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this Section 2.19, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a ""). To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.19 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.19 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person; that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive the Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Termination Date.
Extension Date
provided
Consenting Lender
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
(c) If less than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 10 days prior to the Extension Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders' Commitments for which it is willing to accept an assignment. If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to accept assignments of Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Commitments shall be allocated among the Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent. If after giving effect to the assignments of Commitments described above there remain any Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, the Borrower may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other Eligible Assignees as Assuming Lenders to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender's Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; , , that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $10,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and that:
provided
however
provided
further
(i) any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Advances, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender plus (B) any accrued but unpaid facility fees owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment;
(ii) all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and
(iii) with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 8.07(b)(iv) for such assignment shall have been paid;
 
that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Agent an Assumption Agreement or Assignment and Assumption, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower and the Agent and (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment. Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged. Each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.19 shall deliver to the Borrower any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender.
provided
further
(d) If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.19) Lenders having Commitments equal to at least 50% of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions in Article III, the Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional one-year period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.19, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "Termination Date" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended. Promptly following each Extension Date, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender.
SECTION 2.20. .
Defaulting Lenders
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as such Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable law:
Defaulting Lender Adjustments
(i) . Such Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in the definition of Required Lenders.
Waivers and Amendments
(ii) . Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Agent for the account of such Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Article VI or otherwise) or received by the Agent from a Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 8.05 shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent hereunder; , as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Agent; , if so determined by the Agent and the Borrower, to be held in a deposit account and released in order to satisfy such Defaulting Lender's potential future funding obligations with respect to the Advances under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Advances in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Advances of all Non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior
Defaulting Lender Waterfall
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
provided
 
to being applied to the payment of any Advances owed to such Defaulting Lender until such time as all Advances are held by the Lenders pro rata in accordance with the Commitments. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this Section 2.20(a)(ii) shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
(iii) . Each Defaulting Lender shall be entitled to receive the facility fee specified in Section 2.04(a) for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender only to extent allocable to the sum of the outstanding principal amount of the Advances funded by it.
Certain Fees
(b) If the Borrower and the Agent agree in writing that a Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, the Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase at par that portion of outstanding Revolving Credit Advances of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Revolving Credit Advances to be held pro rata by the Lenders in accordance with their Ratable Shares, whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
provided
provided
further
SECTION 2.21. . If (a) any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.11, (b) the Borrower is required to pay additional amounts to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, (c) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, (d) any Lender's obligation to make or continue, or to convert Base Rate Advances into, Eurocurrency Rate Advances shall be suspended pursuant to Section 2.12 or any other circumstance described in Section 2.12 shall occur, or (e) any Lender does not approve any consent, waiver or amendment that (i) requires the approval of all affected Lenders in accordance with the terms of Section 8.01 and (ii) has been approved by the Required Lenders (a ""), then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 8.07), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an Eligible Assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that:
Replacement of Lenders
Non-Approving Lender
provided
(1) the Borrower shall have paid to the Agent the assignment fee (if any) specified in Section 8.07;
(2) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder (including any amounts under Section 8.04(c)) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
(3) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.11 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.14, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
(4) such assignment does not conflict with applicable law; and
(5) in the case of any assignment resulting from a Lender becoming a Non-Approving Lender, the applicable assignee shall have consented to the applicable amendment, waiver or consent.
SECTION 2.22. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if a Lender (a "") demands any payment of any amount pursuant to Article II and the amount so demanded is disproportionately greater than the amount of compensation (if any) that the Borrower
Removal of Lenders
Demanding Lender
 
generally is obligated to pay to other Lenders arising out of the same event or circumstance giving rise to such demand (a ""), then the Borrower may terminate such Lender's Commitment hereunder, that (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such Commitment termination, (ii) in the case of a Demanding Lender, the Borrower shall concurrently terminate the Commitment of each other Lender that has made a demand for payment under Article II that arises out of such Trigger Event and that is similarly disproportionate to the amount the Borrower is generally obligated to pay to other Lenders arising out of such Trigger Event, (iii) the Agent and the Required Lenders shall have consented to each such Commitment termination (such consents not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, but may include, without limitation, consideration of the adequacy of the liquidity of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) and (iv) such Lender shall have been paid all amounts then due to it under this Agreement and each other Loan Document (which, for the avoidance of doubt, the Borrower may pay in connection with any such termination without making ratable payments to any other Lender (other than another Lender that has a Commitment that concurrently is being terminated under this Section)). In no event shall the termination of a Lender's Commitment in accordance with this paragraph impair or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower to make any payment demanded by such Lender in accordance with Article II.
Trigger Event
provided
SECTION 3.01. . This amendment and restatement of the Existing Credit Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Amendment and Restatement
Effective Date
(a) There shall have occurred no Material Adverse Change since January 1, 2011.
(b) There shall exist no action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries pending or threatened in writing before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect other than the matters described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto (the "") or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and there shall have been no materially adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto.
Disclosed Litigation
(c) Nothing shall have come to the attention of the Lenders during the course of their due diligence investigation to lead them to believe that the Information Memorandum was or has become misleading, incorrect or incomplete in any material respect; without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Lenders shall have been given such access to the management, records, books of account, contracts and properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as they shall have reasonably requested.
(d) All governmental and third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been obtained (without the imposition of any conditions that are not acceptable to the Lenders) and shall remain in effect, and no law or regulation shall be applicable in the reasonable judgment of the Lenders that restrains, prevents or imposes materially adverse conditions upon the transactions contemplated hereby.
(e) The Borrower shall have notified each Lender and the Agent in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
(f) The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent to the extent invoiced reasonably in advance of the Effective Date).
 
(g) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
(i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
(ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default.
(h) The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Revolving Credit Notes) in the number of copies requested by the Agent:
(i) The Revolving Credit Notes to the order of the Lenders to the extent requested by any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16.
(ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes.
(iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
(iv) A favorable opinion of Irwin M. Shur, General Counsel of the Borrower, and a favorable opinion of Foley & Lardner LLP, counsel to the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit D-1 and Exhibit D-2 hereto, respectively, and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
SECTION 3.02. . (a) The obligation of each Lender to make a Revolving Credit Advance on the occasion of each Revolving Credit Borrowing and each Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18 and each extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the applicable Increase Date or the applicable Extension Date the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing, request for Commitment Increase, request for Commitment Extension and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Borrowing, request for Commitment Extension, such Increase Date or such Extension Date such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Revolving Credit Borrowing, Commitment Increase and Commitment Extension
(i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except, in the case of Revolving Credit Borrowings, the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct on and as of such date, before and after giving effect to such Revolving Credit Borrowing, such Commitment Increase or such Commitment Extension and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall have been true and correct on and as of such earlier date,
(ii) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Revolving Credit Borrowing, such Commitment Increase or such Commitment Extension or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default, and
 
(iii) after giving effect to such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Borrower's Debt from any bank or financial institution or under any commercial paper facility or debt securities or securitization program outstanding will not exceed $700,000,000 or, if greater, the amount authorized by resolutions of the Board of Directors in effect on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing;
(b) Each Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.18 and each extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.19 shall be subject to the receipt by the Agent of such other approvals, opinions or documents as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request.
SECTION 3.03. . The obligation of each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance on the occasion of a Competitive Bid Borrowing to make such Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing is subject to the conditions precedent that (i) the Agent shall have received the written confirmatory Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing with respect thereto, (ii) on or before the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, but prior to such Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Agent shall have received a Competitive Bid Note payable to the order of such Lender for each of the one or more Competitive Bid Advances to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Competitive Bid Advance to be evidenced thereby and otherwise on such terms as were agreed to for such Competitive Bid Advance in accordance with Section 2.03, and (iii) on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing such statements are true):
Conditions Precedent to Each Competitive Bid Borrowing
(a) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct on and as of the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Competitive Bid Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall have been true and correct on and as of such earlier date,
(b) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Competitive Bid Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default,
(c) no event has occurred and no circumstance exists as a result of which the information concerning the Borrower that has been provided to the Agent and each Lender by the Borrower in connection herewith would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact or any fact necessary to make the statements contained therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading in any material respect, and
(d) after giving effect to such Competitive Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Borrower's Debt from any bank or financial institution or under any commercial paper facility or debt securities or securitization program outstanding will not exceed $700,000,000 or, if greater, the amount authorized by resolutions of the Board of Directors in effect on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing.
SECTION 3.04. . For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and the Borrower of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
Determinations Under Section 3.01
 
SECTION 4.01. . The Borrower represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Borrower
(a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) law or any material contractual restriction binding on the Borrower.
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any Governmental Authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required as a condition to the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it.
(d) This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally or by equitable principles.
(e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at January 1, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent public accountants, and the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at September 30, 2011, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the nine months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, fairly present, subject, in the case of said balance sheet as at September 30, 2011, and said statements of income and cash flows for the nine months then ended, to the absence of footnotes and to year-end audit adjustments, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Since January 1, 2011, there has been no Material Adverse Change.
(f) There is no pending or threatened (in writing) action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Litigation) or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, and there has been no materially adverse change in the status, or financial effect on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, of the Disclosed Litigation from that described on Schedule 3.01(b) hereto.
(g) The Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), and no proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin stock in violation of Regulation U.
 
(h) The Borrower is not an "investment company", or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
SECTION 5.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will:
Affirmative Covenants
(a) . Comply, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to comply, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and Environmental Laws the violation of which would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
(b) . Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property; , , that neither the Borrower nor any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment or charge that is being contested in good faith and by appropriate action and as to which appropriate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained.
Payment of Taxes, Etc
provided
however
(c) . Maintain, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates; , , that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as other companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Subsidiary operates and to the extent consistent with prudent business practice.
Maintenance of Insurance
provided
however
(d) . Preserve and maintain, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Borrower and such Subsidiaries may consummate any transaction permitted under Section 5.02(b) and that neither the Borrower nor any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any right or franchise if the Board of Directors of the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the Borrower or such Subsidiary.
Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
(e) . At any reasonable time and from time to time (but no more frequently than once per calendar year so long as no Event of Default exists) and, so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing, upon reasonable notice, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders or any agents or representatives thereof, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of, and visit the properties of, the Borrower and any of its Material Subsidiaries, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Material Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and, with one or more representatives of the Borrower present if requested by the Borrower, with their independent certified public accountants, in each case at the Borrower's expense during the continuance of an Event of Default and otherwise at the expense of the Agent or such Lender, as the case may be.
Visitation Rights
(f) . Keep, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary sufficient to enable financial statements to be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time.
Keeping of Books
 
(g) . Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except where the failure to so maintain and preserve could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Properties, Etc
(h) . Conduct, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to conduct, all transactions otherwise permitted under this Agreement with any of their Affiliates other than the Borrower or a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower on terms that are fair and reasonable and no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than it would obtain in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person not an Affiliate, that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries may transact business with Snap-On Credit LLC and its Subsidiaries on a basis consistent with past practice; and except for the following:
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
(i) sales or leases of goods to Affiliates in the ordinary course of business for less than fair market value, but for not less than cost;
(ii) transactions in connection with any Permitted Receivables Financing; and
(iii) transactions permitted under Section 5.02(b).
(i) . Furnish to the Agent:
Reporting Requirements
(i) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to the absence of footnotes and to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certificates of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower as to compliance (or non-compliance) with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance (or non-compliance) with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in GAAP used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion by Deloitte & Touche LLP or other nationally recognized independent public accountants and certificates of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement and setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations necessary to demonstrate compliance (or non-compliance) with Section 5.03, that in the event of any change in GAAP used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP;
provided
(iii) as soon as possible and in any event within five Business Days after an executive officer of the Borrower knows or should have known of the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer or treasurer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
 
(iv) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports that the Borrower sends to its security holders generally as such, and copies of all reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K (or their equivalents) and registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto) that the Borrower or any Subsidiary files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
(v) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and
(vi) such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(i)(i), (i)(ii) or (i)(iv) may be delivered electronically and, if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which the Lenders and the Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or sponsored by the Agent); that the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Agent (which shall notify each Lender) of the posting of any such document and, promptly upon request by the Agent, provide to the Agent by electronic mail an electronic version (., a soft copy) of any such document specifically requested by the Agent. The Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
provided
i.e
SECTION 5.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not:
Negative Covenants
(a) . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign for security purposes, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to assign for security purposes, any right to receive income, other than:
Liens, Etc
(i) Permitted Liens,
(ii) purchase money Liens upon or in any property acquired or held by the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or to secure Debt incurred or guaranteed solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property, or Liens existing on such property at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, , , that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the property being acquired (and related property and proceeds thereof), except that separate financing provided by one Person and its affiliates may be cross-collateralized so long as all such financings are permitted hereunder (it being understood that a Lien covering all assets of a particular type, such as "all inventory" may cover additional assets of the relevant type), and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced (except to the extent permitted above), that the aggregate principal amount of the indebtedness secured by the Liens referred to in this clause (ii) shall not exceed $50,000,000,
provided
however
provided
further
(iii) the Liens existing on the Effective Date and described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto,
 
(iv) Liens on (or assignments of) property of a Person existing at the time such Person is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary of the Borrower or becomes a Material Subsidiary of the Borrower; that such Liens or assignments were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation or acquisition and do not extend to any assets other than those of the Person so merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Borrower or such Subsidiary,
provided
(v) other Liens or assignments securing Debt and other obligations in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed, at the time of incurrence, the greater of (A) $75,000,000 and (B) 2.0% of the Borrower's consolidated total assets determined as of the date of the most recently delivered financial statements pursuant to Section 5.01(i),
(vi) Liens or assignments arising in connection with a Permitted Receivables Financing,
(vii) leases, subleases, licenses or sublicenses granted to others in the ordinary course of business, and other similar Liens that, in the aggregate, do not materially detract from the value of the same or interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Borrower or its Material Subsidiaries,
(viii) Liens (x) arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to bankers' liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies as to deposit accounts, securities accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution; that (i) such account is not a dedicated cash collateral account and is not subject to restriction against access by the Borrower or a Subsidiary in excess of those set forth by regulations promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, and (ii) such account is not intended by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to provide collateral to the depository institution, and (y) in the ordinary course of business in connection with intercompany cash pooling, interest set-off and/or sweeping arrangements,
provided
(ix) Liens on the property of the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary securing (i) the non-delinquent performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for borrowed money), leases, and statutory obligations, (ii) contingent obligations on surety, performance and appeal bonds, and (iii) other non-delinquent obligations of a like nature; in each case, incurred in the ordinary course of business and treating as non-delinquent any delinquency which is being contested in good faith and by appropriate action, which action has the effect of preventing the forfeiture or sale of the property subject thereto,
(x) Liens securing reimbursement obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business for letters of credit, which Liens encumber only goods, or documents of title covering goods, which are purchased in transactions for which such letters of credit are issued,
(xi) Liens securing obligations in respect of capital leases, in each case on assets subject to such leases and documents directly related thereto, that such leases are otherwise permitted hereunder,
provided
(xii) any extension, refinancing, renewal, substitution or replacement of or for any of the foregoing Liens to the extent that the aggregate principal amount of the indebtedness or other obligation or liability secured by the applicable Lien shall not be increased; that the Lien securing such indebtedness or other obligation or liability shall not extend to or cover additional assets (it being understood that a Lien covering all assets of a particular type, such as "all inventory", may cover additional assets of the relevant type),
provided
 
(xiii) attachments, appeal bonds, judgments and other similar Liens arising in connection with court proceedings that do not constitute an Event of Default;
(xiv) Liens arising under or pursuant to any Loan Document, and
(xv) Liens on proceeds of any of the assets permitted to be the subject of any Lien or assignment permitted by this Section 5.02(a).
(b) . Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of related transactions) all or substantially all of its assets excluding for the avoidance of doubt (i) any transfer of cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities in the ordinary course of business, (ii) any issuance by a Person of its own equity interests, (iii) any transfer for security purposes that is permitted by Section 5.02(a) and (iv) any casualty loss, governmental taking or similar disposition) (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to do so, except that (i) any Material Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into, or transfer, convey, lease or dispose of assets to, any other Subsidiary of the Borrower, (ii) any Material Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into or transfer, lease, convey or dispose of assets to the Borrower and (iii) the Borrower may merge into a wholly owned Subsidiary of the Borrower that has no material assets or liabilities for the sole purpose of changing the state of incorporation of the Borrower if the surviving Person shall expressly assume the liabilities of the Borrower under this Agreement and the Notes, , in each case, that no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom and , , that the foregoing shall not restrict (A) the Borrower or its Material Subsidiaries in respect of conveyances, transfers, leases or other dispositions (i) of inventory, or obsolete, used or surplus property in the ordinary course of business or (ii) in respect of any Permitted Receivables Financing or (B) the sale of all or any portion of the equity interest in, or all or any portion of the assets of, Snap-On Credit LLC or any of its Subsidiaries, so long as such sale is conducted in an arm's length transaction and the Borrower (or a Subsidiary of the Borrower) shall receive all of the net proceeds from any such sale.
Mergers, Etc
provided
provided
further
(c) . Make or permit, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by generally accepted accounting principles.
Accounting Changes
(d) . Make, or permit any of its Material Subsidiaries to make, any material change in the nature of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole as carried on at the date hereof, it being understood that the foregoing shall not apply to any operations involving the financing of receivables for its customers, its franchisees (and dealers) and its franchisees' (and dealers') customers, or as contemplated by clause (B) of the second proviso of Section 5.02(b).
Change in Nature of Business
SECTION 5.03. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will either:
Financial Covenant
(a) . Maintain, as at the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of Consolidated Debt to the sum of Consolidated Debt plus shareholders' equity (including non-controlling interests) of not greater than 0.60 to 1.00; or
Leverage Ratio
(b) . Maintain, as at the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of Consolidated Debt to EBITDA for the four fiscal quarters then ended of not greater than 3.50 to 1.00.
Debt to EBITDA Ratio
 
SECTION 6.01. . If any of the following events ("") shall occur and be continuing:
Events of Default
Events of Default
(a) The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made by the Borrower herein or in any written document furnished pursuant hereto shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or
(c)(i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d), (e) or (i), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender; or
(d) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt (other than Debt owed to the Borrowers or any of its Subsidiaries) that is outstanding in a principal or net amount of at least $75,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption); or any such Debt shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid or redeemed (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment or redemption), purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof; or
(e) The Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed for a period of 60 days, or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property) shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
(f) Judgments or orders for the payment of money in excess of $75,000,000 in the aggregate shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries with respect to which (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgments or orders or (ii) there shall be any period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgments or orders, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; , , that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default or included in the calculation of the aggregate amount of judgments or orders under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (i) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the
provided
however
 
insurer covering payment thereof and (ii) such insurer, which shall be rated at least "A" by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or
(g) Any non-monetary judgment or order shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and there shall be any period of 10 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; or
(h)(i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert (other than any Related Person) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Borrower; or (ii) during any period of up to 12 consecutive calendar months, commencing after the date of this Agreement, individuals who at the beginning of such period were directors of the Borrower shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower (except to the extent that individuals who at the beginning of such period were replaced by individuals (x) elected by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower or (y) nominated for election by a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors of the Borrower and thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Borrower); or
(i) The Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur, or shall be reasonably likely to incur liability in excess of $75,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization, insolvency or termination of a Multiemployer Plan;
then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Advances, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; , , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Advances, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower.
provided
however
SECTION 7.01. . Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints JPMCB to act on its behalf as the Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third-party beneficiary of any of such provisions. It is understood and agreed that the use of the term "agent" herein or in any other Loan Documents (or any other similar term) with reference to the Agent is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law. Instead such term is used as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between contracting parties.
Appointment and Authority
 
SECTION 7.02. . The Person serving as the Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent, and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, own securities of, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for, and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
SECTION 7.03. . (a) The Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, and its duties hereunder shall be administrative in nature. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
(i) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(ii) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents); provided that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law, including for the avoidance of doubt any action that may be in violation of the automatic stay under any Debtor Relief Law or that may effect a forfeiture, modification or termination of property of a Defaulting Lender in violation of any Debtor Relief Law; and
(iii) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
(b) The Agent shall not be liable vis--vis the Lenders for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 and Article VI), or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment. The Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Agent in writing by the Borrower or a Lender.
(c) The Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Agent.
SECTION 7.04. . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) reasonably believed by it in good faith to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and reasonably believed by it in good faith to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of an Advance that by its terms must be
Reliance by Agent
 
fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Advance. The Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it with reasonable care, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
SECTION 7.05. . The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Revolving Credit Advances then owed to each of them (or if no Revolving Credit Advances are at the time outstanding, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement (collectively, the ""), that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower. In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.05 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Agent, any Lender or a third party.
Indemnification
Indemnified Costs
provided
SECTION 7.06. . The Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub agents appointed by the Agent with reasonable care. The Agent and any such sub agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub agent and to the Related Parties of the Agent and any such sub agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the loans under this Agreement as well as activities as Agent. The Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any sub-agents except to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction determines in a final and non appealable judgment that the Agent acted with gross negligence or willful misconduct in the selection of such sub agents.
Delegation of Duties
SECTION 7.07. (a) The Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower (so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing), to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders (with the consent of the Borrower, if required) and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Agent gives notice of its resignation (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then the retiring Agent may (but shall not be obligated to), on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
Resignation of Agent.
Resignation Effective Date
(b) If the Person serving as Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to clause (d) of the definition thereof, the Required Lenders may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Borrower and such Person remove such Person as Agent and, with the consent of the Borrower (so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing), appoint a successor. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders (with the consent of the Borrower, if required) and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the ""), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
Removal Effective Date
(c) With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable) (i) the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other
 
Loan Documents in its capacity as Agent (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Agent on behalf of the Lenders under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring or removed Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Agent is appointed) and (ii) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Agent as provided for above. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent, and the retiring or removed Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring or removed Agent's resignation or removal hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 8.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring or removed Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring or removed Agent was acting as Agent.
SECTION 7.08. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Non-Reliance on Agent and Other Lenders.
SECTION 7.09. Each Lender hereby acknowledges that no syndication agent and no documentation agent nor any other Lender designated as any "Agent" (other than the Agent) on the signature pages or the cover hereof has any liability hereunder other than in its capacity as a Lender.
Other Agents.
SECTION 8.01. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Revolving Credit Notes, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01 without the written consent of each Lender, (b) other than in accordance with Section 2.18, increase the Commitments of any Lender or subject any Lender to any additional obligations without the written consent of such Lender, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Revolving Credit Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (d) other than in accordance with Section 2.19, postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Revolving Credit Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, or the definition of "Required Lenders", without the consent of each Lender or (f) amend this Section 8.01 without the consent of each Lender; and that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitments of such Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
Amendments, Etc
provided
however
provided
further
 
SECTION 8.02. . (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows:
Notices, Etc
Notice Generally
(i) if to the Borrower, to it at 2801 80
th
Street, Kenosha, Wisconsin 53141, Attention: Jeffrey F. Kostrzewa, Vice President & Treasurer, (Facsimile No. (262) 656-5353; Telephone No. (262) 656-5677) and Irwin M. Shur, General Counsel, (Facsimile No. (262) 656-5127; Telephone No. (262) 656-5560) ;
(ii) if to the Agent, to JPMorgan Loan Services, JPMorgan Chase Bank, 10 South Dearborn, 7th Floor, Chicago, IL 60603, Tel: 312-385-7084, Fax: 888-292-9533, email: jpm.agency.servicing.4@jpmchase.com, Attention: Nanette Wilson, with a copy, in the case of any Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing to be denominated in a Foreign Currency, to JPMorgan Europe Limited, 125 London Wall, London EC2Y 5AJ Tele no 44 207 777 3092 Fax no 44 207 777 2360 Attention Loan and Agency Manager; and
(iii) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications, to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Agent. The Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Unless the Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient, at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i), of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor; provided that, for both clauses (i) and (ii) above, if such notice, email or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient.
(c) . Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, etc
(d) .
Platform
(i) The Borrower agrees that the Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the Communications (as defined below) available to the other Lenders by posting the Communications on Debt Domain, Intralinks, Syndtrak or a substantially similar electronic transmission system (the "").
Platform
(ii) The Platform is provided "as is" and "as available." The Agent Parties (as defined below) do not warrant the adequacy of the Platform and expressly disclaim liability for errors or omissions in the Communications. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory,
 
including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third-party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by any Agent Party in connection with the Communications or the Platform. In no event shall the Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person or entity for damages of any kind, including, without limitation, direct or indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, losses or expenses (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Agent's transmission, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, of communications through the Platform. "" means, collectively, any notice, demand, communication, information, document or other material that the Borrower provides to the Agent pursuant to any Loan Document or the transactions contemplated therein which is distributed to the Agent or any Lender by means of electronic communications pursuant to this Section, including through the Platform.
Agent Parties
Communications
SECTION 8.03. . No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
SECTION 8.04. . (a) The Borrower agrees to pay promptly (and in any event within 15 days) after demand all reasonable costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation, computer, duplication, appraisal, consultant, and audit expenses and (B) the reasonable fees and expenses of one (subject to conflicts issues) primary counsel for the Agent and one (subject to conflicts issues) local counsel in each relevant jurisdiction engaged by such primary counsel with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a).
Costs and Expenses
(b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) (i) the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances or (ii) the actual or alleged presence of Hazardous Materials on any property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except to the extent (x) such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense resulted from such Indemnified Party's material breach of contract, bad faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct, (y) such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense relate to any litigation or proceeding solely between or among Indemnified Parties not arising from any act or omission by the Borrower or any of its Affiliates or (z) except to the extent payable under Section 8.04(a), such claim, damage loss, liability or expense arises in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification or amendment of this Agreement. In the case of an investigation, litigation or other proceeding to which the indemnity in this Section 8.04(b) applies, such indemnity shall be effective whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, its directors, shareholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person or any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated. The Borrower also agrees not to assert any claim for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages against the Agent, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents, on any theory of liability, arising out of or otherwise relating to the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances.
Indemnified Party
 
(c) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurocurrency Rate Advance, LIBO Rate Advance or Local Rate Advance is made by the Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08(d) or (e), 2.10 or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.07 as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.21, the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (including loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
(d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes.
SECTION 8.05. . Upon (a) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (b) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, but excluding any deposits held by the Borrower in any trustee, agency, fiduciary or other capacity for the benefit of one or more third parties) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate (but not including any insurance premiums) to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Note held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have.
Right of Set-off
provided
SECTION 8.06. . This Agreement shall become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01 and when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of all Lenders (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void).
Binding Effect
SECTION 8.07. . (a) . No Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of paragraph (e) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in paragraph (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Assignments and Participations
Successors and Assigns Generally
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
 
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and/or the Advances at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in paragraph (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Advances outstanding thereunder) or, if the applicable Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Advances of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Advance or the Commitment assigned.
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by paragraph (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (x) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment, or (y) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; that the Borrower shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall object thereto by written notice to the Agent within seven Business Days after having received notice thereof; and
provided
(B) the consent of the Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender with a Commitment, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; that the Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries or (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause (B).
No Assignment to Certain Persons
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural Person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
(vii) . In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations
Certain Additional Payments
 
or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Advances previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Agent and each other Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon), and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Advances in accordance with its Ratable Share. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Agent pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.12 and 8.04 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment; , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no assignment by a Defaulting Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section.
provided
(c) . The Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in the United States a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders shall treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. Each Lender that sells a participation, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain a register for the recordation of the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in its rights and other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participation Register to any Person (including the identity of any participant or any information relating to a participant's interest in any commitments, loans or its other obligations under any Loan Document) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such commitment, loan or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103(e) of the United States Treasury Regulations.
Register
Register
Participation Register
provided
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural Person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Advances owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, and (iii) the Borrower, the Agent and Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, each Lender shall be responsible for the indemnity under Section 7.05 with respect to any payments made by such Lender to its Participant(s).
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in
provided
 
the first proviso of Section 8.01 that directly affects such Participant. The Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11 and 2.14 (subject to the requirements and limitations therein, including the requirements under Section 2.14(e) (it being understood that the documentation required under Section 2.14(e) shall be delivered to the participating Lender)) .to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; that such Participant (i) agrees to be subject to the provisions of Sections 2.21 as if it were an assignee under paragraph (b) of this Section and (ii) shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Sections 2.11 or 2.14 with respect to such participation, that its participating Lender would have been entitled to receive, except to the extent such entitlement to receive a greater payment results from a change in law that occurs after the Participant acquired the applicable participation. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 8.05 as though it were a Lender; that such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.15 as though it were a Lender.
provided
provided
(e) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank or other central banking authority; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
SECTION 8.08. . Each of the Agent and the Lenders shall maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its Related Parties (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential on terms no less restrictive then as provided herein); (b) to the extent required or requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over such Person or its Related Parties (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners); (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process; (d) to any other party hereto; (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder; (f) subject to an agreement for the benefit of the Borrower containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement; (g) on a confidential basis to (i) any rating agency in connection with rating the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or the facility under this Agreement or (ii) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar agency in connection with the issuance and monitoring of CUSIP numbers with respect to the facility under this Agreement; (h) with the written consent of the Borrower; or (i) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section, or (y) becomes available to the Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
Confidentiality
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (including information provided by the Agent on such Borrower's or Subsidiary's behalf), other than any such information that is available to the Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
SECTION 8.09. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
SECTION 8.10. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier or other electronic transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
SECTION 8.11. . (a) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in Dollars into another currency, the parties hereto agree, to the fullest
Judgment
 
extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase Dollars with such other currency at JPMCB's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
(b) If for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder in a Foreign Currency into Dollars, the parties agree to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase such Foreign Currency with Dollars at JPMCB's principal office in London at 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given.
(c) The obligation of the Borrower in respect of any sum due from it in any currency (the "") to any Lender or the Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in any other currency, be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be), of any sum adjudged to be so due in such other currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the applicable Primary Currency with such other currency; if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased is less than such sum due to such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) against such loss, and if the amount of the applicable Primary Currency so purchased exceeds such sum due to any Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) in the applicable Primary Currency, such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) agrees to remit to the Borrower such excess.
Primary Currency
SECTION 8.12. . (a) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that it will not commence any action, litigation or proceeding of any kind or description, whether in law or equity, whether in contract or in tort or otherwise, against the Agent, any Lender or any Related Party of the foregoing in any way relating to this Agreement or any Note or the transactions relating hereto or thereto, in any forum other than (i) the courts of the State of New York sitting in New York County, and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, or (ii) any state or federal court sitting in Chicago, Illinois, and any appellate court from any thereof, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of such courts and agrees that all claims in respect of any such action, litigation or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York or Illinois state court, or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action, litigation or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement or in any Note shall affect any right that the Agent, any Lender or the Borrower may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note against any Person or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction to enforce a judgment rendered by a New York or Illinois state or federal court. The Borrower hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid with an additional notice by telecopier or by reputable overnight delivery service, to the Borrower at its address specified pursuant to Section 8.02.
Jurisdiction, Etc
(b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York or Illinois state or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
SECTION 8.13. . If a change in any Foreign Currency occurs pursuant to any applicable law, rule or regulation of any governmental, monetary or multi-national authority, this Agreement (including, without limitation, the definitions of Eurocurrency Rate and LIBO Rate) will be amended to the extent determined by the Agent (acting reasonably and in consultation with the Borrower) to be necessary to reflect the change in currency and to put the Lenders and the Borrower in the same position, so far as possible, that they would have been in if no change in such Foreign Currency had occurred. No such change in currency nor any economic consequences resulting therefrom shall (a) give rise to any right to terminate prematurely, contest, cancel, rescind, alter, modify or renegotiate the provisions of this Agreement or (b) discharge, excuse or otherwise affect the performance of any obligations of any of the Borrower or the Lenders under this Agreement.
Substitution of Currency
 
SECTION 8.14. . Each Lender and the Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56, signed into law October 26, 2001 (the "Patriot Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. The Borrower shall provide such information and take such actions as are reasonably requested by the Agent or any Lenders in order to assist the Agent and the Lenders in maintaining compliance with the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Notice
SECTION 8.15. . The Borrower and Lenders that are parties to the Existing Credit Agreement, which Lenders constitute the "Required Lenders" under and as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement, hereby waive the requirement for prior notice of the termination of the "Commitments" (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) and the prepayment of the "Loans" (as defined in the Existing Credit Agreement) and agree that on the Effective Date, the Existing Credit Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force or effect (except for provisions thereof that by their terms survive termination thereof).
Termination of Existing Credit Agreement
SECTION 8.16. .
Waiver of Jury Trial
Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE I
TO THE
AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Lender shall promptly notify the Agent in writing of any change to the information provided by it pursuant to this paragraph.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A-1FORM OF
REVOLVING CREDIT
PROMISSORY NOTE
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of                     (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date applicable to the Lender (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lender's Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 8, 2011 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) outstanding on such date.
Borrower
Lender
Credit Agreement
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement.
Both principal and interest in respect of each Revolving Credit Advance (i) in Dollars are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to the Agent at its account maintained at [            ], in same day funds and (ii) in any Committed Currency are payable in such currency at the applicable Payment Office in same day funds. Each Revolving Credit Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
This Promissory Note is one of the Revolving Credit Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Revolving Credit Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Revolving Credit Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, (ii) contains provisions for determining the Dollar Equivalent of Revolving Credit Advances denominated in Committed Currencies and (iii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
 
 
EXHIBIT A-2FORM OF
COMPETITIVE BID
PROMISSORY NOTE
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of                     (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office (as defined in the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 8, 2011 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (""), as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined)), on             , 201 , the principal amount of [U.S.$            ] [for a Competitive Bid Advance in a Foreign Currency, list currency and amount of such Advance].
Borrower
Lender
JPMCB
Credit Agreement
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof from the date hereof until such principal amount is paid in full, at the interest rate and payable on the interest payment date or dates provided below:
Interest Rate:             % per annum (calculated on the basis of a year of             days for the actual number of days elapsed).
Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of             to JPMCB, as agent, for the account of the Lender at the office of             , at             in same day funds.
This Promissory Note is one of the Competitive Bid Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events.
Except as otherwise provided in the Credit Agreement, the Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
This Promissory Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
EXHIBIT B-1  FORM OF NOTICE OF
REVOLVING CREDIT BORROWING
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
[            ]
Attention: Loan Services Department
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, refers to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (""), as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Revolving Credit Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement:
Credit Agreement
JPMCB
Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing
(i) The Business Day of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is             , 201 .
(ii) The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurocurrency Rate Advances].
(iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is [$            ] [for a Revolving Credit Borrowing in a Committed Currency, list currency and amount of Revolving Credit Borrowing].
[(iv) The initial Interest Period for each Eurocurrency Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is             [month[s]] [days].
1
]
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing:
(A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent any such
 
1
NOTE TO FORM: If an Interest Period of a duration other than one, two, three or six months is requested, then a desired alternative to such requested Interest Period should also be designated pursuant to clause (c) of the definition of "Interest Period". Such alternative Interest Period would apply if any or all of the Lenders were to object to the requested duration of the Interest Period. The alternative Interest Period must be of a duration of one, two, three or six months.
representation or warranty is stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall have been true and correct on and as of such earlier date;
(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default; and
(C) after giving effect to such Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Borrower's Debt from any bank or financial institution or under any commercial paper facility or debt securities or securitization program outstanding will not exceed $700,000,000 or, if greater, the amount authorized by resolutions of the Board of Directors in effect on the date of such Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing.
 
EXHIBIT B-2  FORM OF NOTICE OF
COMPETITIVE BID BORROWING
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Agent
for the Lenders parties
to the Credit Agreement
referred to below
[            ]
Attention: Loan Services Department
Ladies and Gentlemen:
The undersigned, SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, refers to the Amended and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of December 8, 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (""), as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Competitive Bid Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth the terms on which such Competitive Bid Borrowing (the "") is requested to be made:
Credit Agreement
JPMCB
Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing
(A) Date of Competitive Bid Borrowing             
(B) Amount of Competitive Bid Borrowing             
(C) [Maturity Date] [Interest Period]             
(D) Interest Rate Basis             
(E) Day Count Convention             
(F) Interest Payment Date(s)             
(G) Currency             
(H) Borrower's Account Location             
[(I) Prepayments Permitted             ]
(J)             
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing:
(a) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) thereof and in subsection (f)(i) thereof) are correct, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall have been true and correct on and as of such earlier date;
(b) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default;
(c) no event has occurred and no circumstance exists as a result of which the information concerning the undersigned that has been provided to the Agent and each Lender by the undersigned in connection with the Credit Agreement would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact or any fact necessary to make the statements contained therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading in any material respect;
(d) the aggregate amount of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if accepted by the Borrower, and all other Borrowings to be made on the same day under the Credit Agreement is within the aggregate amount of the unused Commitments of the Lenders, and
(e) after giving effect to the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, the aggregate amount of the Borrower's Debt from any bank or financial institution or under any commercial paper facility or debt securities or securitization program outstanding will not exceed $700,000,000 or, if greater, the amount authorized by resolutions of the Board of Directors in effect on the date of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing.
 
EXHIBIT C  FORM OF
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each]
Assignment and Assumption
11
Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] "") and [the][each]
Assignor
12
Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ""). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
Assignee
13
hereunder are several and not joint.]
14
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by [the][each] Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Credit Agreement
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignor's][the respective Assignors'] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below, and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
[for each Assignee, indicate [Affiliate][Approved Fund] of []
identify Lender
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Date:             , 20            [TO BE INSERTED BY AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
 
[Consented to and]
23
Accepted:
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as
    Agent
By:
                                                                                          
        Title:
[Consented to:]
2
4
 
SNAP-ON INCORPORATED, as
    the Borrower
By:
                                                                                          
        Title:
ANNEX 1
 
1.1 . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim, (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and (iv) it is [not] a Defaulting Lender; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document, or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor[s]
1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 8.07(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under Section 8.07(b)(iii) of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by the Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire the Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(i) thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to Section 2.14(e) of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee[s]
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignee whether such amounts have accrued prior to, on or after the Effective Date. The Assignor[s] and the Assignee[s] shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments by the Agent for periods prior to the Effective Date or with respect to the making of this assignment directly between themselves.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
EXHIBIT D  FORM OF
OPINION OF COUNSEL
FOR THE BORROWER


