FILE:PRGO/PRGO-8K-20040804085536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 3, 2004 PERRIGO COMPANY --------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter) MICHIGAN 0-19725 38-2799573 - --------------- ------------ ------------------- (State or other (Commission (I.R.S. Employer Jurisdiction of File Number) Identification Incorporation) Number) 515 Eastern Avenue, Allegan, Michigan 49010 ------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (269) 673-8451
ITEM 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition On August 3, 2004, the Perrigo Company announced that it is negotiating a settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in order to close the FTC's investigation into a 1998 agreement between Perrigo and New Jersey-based, Alpharma Inc. The press release related to Perrigo's announcement is attached as Exhibit 99. The information in this Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Report shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PERRIGO COMPANY (Registrant) By: /s/ Douglas R. Schrank ---------------------------- Dated: August 3, 2004 Douglas R. Schrank Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Accounting and Financial Officer)
Exhibit Index Exhibit 99 - Press Release issued by Perrigo Company on August 3, 2004, furnished solely pursuant to Item 12 for Form 8-K.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Ernest J. Schenk, Manager, Investor Relations and Communication (269) 673-9212 E-mail: eschenk@perrigo.com PERRIGO NEGOTIATING SETTLEMENT WITH FTC ALLEGAN, Mich. - Aug. 3, 2004 - Today the Perrigo Company (Nasdaq: PRGO) announced that it is negotiating a settlement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in order to close the FTC's investigation into a 1998 agreement between Perrigo and New Jersey-based, Alpharma Inc. The 1998 agreement, which is no longer in effect, allowed Perrigo to introduce a store brand children's ibuprofen suspension product faster than it could have without the agreement. Although Perrigo's objective was to provide a low-cost store brand product to consumers as soon as possible, the FTC was concerned that, under the agreement, Alpharma could not market a similar product. Because it is likely that Perrigo will enter into a settlement agreement with the FTC, the Company has recorded a $4.75 million charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 which is expected to resolve all claims by the FTC and state governments. Perrigo continues to work with the FTC to finalize the settlement. The Perrigo product continues to provide consumers with a store brand choice and a 25 to 30 percent savings versus the available national brand product. For its fiscal fourth quarter ended June 26, 2004, Perrigo expects to report net sales of $206 million, net income of $8.1 million and EPS of $0.11 per share, including the $4.75 million charge. Further details will be provided when the Company announces earnings for the quarter and fiscal 2004 on August 10. Perrigo Company is the nation's largest manufacturer of over-the-counter (non-prescription) pharmaceutical and nutritional products sold by supermarket, drug, and mass merchandise chains under their own labels. The Company's products include over-the-counter pharmaceuticals such as analgesics, cough and cold remedies, gastrointestinal, and feminine hygiene products, and nutritional products, such as vitamins, nutritional supplements and nutritional drinks. Visit Perrigo on the Internet (http://www.perrigo.com). Note: Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby. These statements relate to future events or the Company's future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels
of activity, performance or achievements of the Company or its industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "intend," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential" or other comparable terminology. Please see the "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on pages 25 - 30 of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 28, 2003 for a discussion of certain important factors that relate to forward-looking statements contained in this press release. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ###


