FILE:PRGO/PRGO-8K-20070913120115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
 
(269) 673-8451
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Employment Agreement between the Company and Moshe Arkin, Mr. Arkin has provided timely written notice to the Company of his intention not to renew his Employment Agreement, such that he will terminate his employment as Vice Chairman and General Manager, Perrigo Global Generics and API, effective March 17, 2008. While he will cease to be an executive officer as of that date, Mr. Arkin will remain a member of the Companys Board of Directors.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   
PERRIGO VICE CHAIR MORI ARKIN TO RETIRE AFTER 30 YEARS OF SERVICE
 
 ALLEGAN, Mich., Sept. 13 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Perrigo Company (Nasdaq: PRGO; TASE) today announced that Mori Arkin, Vice Chairman and General Manager, Perrigo Global Generics and API, has advised the Company that he will retire at the expiration of his current employment agreement on March 17, 2008. Mr. Arkin will remain in his current role until that time, managing the business and ensuring an orderly transition. Arkin will remain a member of the Companys Board of Directors and continue to assist the Company as needed.
   
 
 Arkin joined Perrigo as Vice Chairman and has served as a director since March 2005. Before joining Perrigo, Arkin served as Chairman of the Board of Directors and was the principal shareholder of Agis Industries (1983) Ltd., now known as Perrigo Israel Pharmaceuticals Ltd., from its establishment in 1983 (and prior to that of its affiliated companies) until its acquisition by Perrigo in March 2005.
   
 
 Mori has done an outstanding job of moving the Company forward during his tenure as Vice Chairman, said Joseph C. Papa, Perrigos President and CEO. The strategic direction put in place under Moris leadership, with its emphasis on continued growth of the generic Rx business in the US and expansion of the API business around the world will remain in place, and the Company will continue to move forward under the current business plan.
   
 
 After his departure, the Global Generic and API leadership team will report directly to Perrigos President and CEO. Rafi Lebel, EVP and General Manager of Perrigo Israel, who has been with the Company for more than 19 years, will continue to lead the API, Consumer Products and Pharmaceutical Diagnostics businesses. Jatin Shah, SVP and Chief Scientific Officer, who has more than 29 years of pharmaceutical leadership experience, will continue to manage Global R&D and Regulatory. Sharon Kochan, who has been with Perrigo more than 13 years, will continue in his role as EVP US Generics. Mr. Papa stated, I am confident that Mori and his team will continue to manage the Perrigo Israel businesses well during this time of transition and I look forward to working directly with the team in the future.
   
 
 Arkin said, I have been proud to work with our leadership team to build Perrigo into the global company that it is today and to drive value for our shareholders. As a member of the board I will work with the leadership team, continuing the focus on key business initiatives and maintenance of the momentum weve established. I am committed to making this a smooth transition.
   
 Perrigo Company is a leading global healthcare supplier that develops, manufactures and distributes over-the-counter (OTC) and prescription pharmaceuticals, nutritional products, active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and consumer products. The Company is the worlds largest manufacturer of OTC pharmaceutical products for the store brand market. The Companys primary markets and locations of manufacturing facilities are the United States, Israel, Mexico and the United Kingdom. Visit Perrigo on the Internet (http://www.perrigo.com).
   
 
 
 Note: Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby. These statements relate to future events or the Companys future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the Company or its industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, could, would, should, expect, plan, anticipate, intend, believe, estimate, predict, potential or other comparable terminology. The Company has based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections. While the Company believes these expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Companys control. These and other important factors, including those discussed under Risk Factors in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007, as well as the Companys subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made only as of the date hereof, and unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
   
 
Arthur J. Shannon, Vice President, Investor Relations and Communication
(269) 686-1709
E-mail:
ajshannon@perrigo.com
 
Ernest J. Schenk, Manager, Investor Relations and Communication
(269) 673-9212
E-mail:
eschenk@perrigo.com
 


