FILE:PRGO/PRGO-8K-20101102091446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 2, 2010
PERRIGO COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
   
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(269) 673-8451
 
 
 
                    
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
    
ITEM 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 2, 2010, Perrigo Company (the Company) released earnings for the first fiscal quarter 2011.  The press release related to the Companys earnings is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The earnings release contains certain non-GAAP measures.  A non-GAAP financial measure is defined as a numerical measure of a companys financial performance that excludes or includes amounts different than the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in the statements of income, balance sheets or statements of cash flows of the company.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided a reconciliation for gross profit, operating expenses, operating income, net interest and other, income from continuing operations and earnings per share from continuing operations within its earnings release to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure for these non-GAAP measures.
The Company excludes the items listed below in the applicable period when monitoring and evaluating the on-going financial results and trends of its business, and believes that presenting operating results excluding these items is also useful for investors, since it provides important insight into the Company's on-going core business operations on a normalized basis. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of the Companys business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated.  Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure the Companys performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level.
Items excluded from reported results and guidance:
First Quarter Fiscal 2010 Results
First Quarter Fiscal 2011 Results
Fiscal 2010 Results
 
 
 
Fiscal 2011 Guidance
The information in this Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  The information in this Report shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
    
ITEM 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
       
 Exhibit Index
Exhibit 99.1 
Press release issued by Perrigo Company on November 2, 2010, furnished solely pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.
 

Perrigo Reports Record Earnings and Raises Full Year Adjusted EPS Guidance
ALLEGAN, Mich., Nov. 2, 2010 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ --
Fiscal first quarter revenue from continuing operations increased $113 million, or 21 percent, to a record $641 million
Fiscal first quarter adjusted income from continuing operations increased 22 percent to a record $81 million, or $0.87 per share
Fiscal first quarter GAAP income from continuing operations increased 44 percent to $74 million, or $0.79 per share
Rx segment revenue grew 47 percent with reported operating income of $18 million and adjusted operating income of $20 million
Management raises expected full-year fiscal 2011 adjusted diluted earnings from continuing operations to be in a range of $3.60 to $3.75 per share, an increase of 19 percent to 24 percent compared to fiscal 2010 adjusted diluted EPS
Perrigo Company (Nasdaq: PRGO; TASE) today announced results for its first quarter ended September 25, 2010.
Perrigo's Chairman and CEO Joseph C. Papa commented, "We have started fiscal 2011 well, delivering record earnings for the quarter. The market for store brands continues to grow, now representing approximately 29% of over-the-counter (OTC) and nutritional sales dollars at retail and up 400 basis points in the past two years. Our Rx segment continued its strong performance, which was driven by new product sales and growth in over-the-counter Rx (ORx) combined with our continued focus on quality and R&D. Our value proposition continues to resonate well with consumers in all economic conditions."
Following the acquisition of PBM Holdings, Inc. (PBM), the Company has realigned its reportable segments to include a new reportable segment, Nutritionals. The financial information in this press release, including the attached tables, reflects the realignment of the Company& #39;s reportable segments, as well as the elimination of the prior one-month reporting lag in international subsidiaries.
Refer to Table II at the end of this press release for adjustments in the current year and prior year periods and additional non-GAAP disclosure information.
The Company's reported results are summarized in the attached Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, Balance Sheets and Statements of Cash Flows.
$0.79
First Quarter Results
Net sales from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 were $641 million, an increase of 21%. Reported income from continuing operations was $74 million, or $0.79 per share, up 44% from $51 million, or $0.55 per share, a year ago. Excluding charges as outlined in Table II at the end of this release, first quarter fiscal 2011 adjusted income from continuing operations was $81 million, or $0.87 per share.
Consumer Healthcare
Consumer Healthcare segment net sales in the first quarter were $396 million compared with $381 million in the first quarter last year, an increase of $15 million or 4%. The increase resulted from approximately $18 million of sales in existing products, primarily in cough/cold and analgesics plus $17 million of new product sales. These increases were partially offset by the impact of competition in the smoking cessation category, as well as a decrease in contract manufacturing. Reported operating income was $71 million, compared to $74 million a year ago, largely as a result of decreased sales in smoking cessation. On an adjusted basis, operating income was $73 million compared to $76 million in fiscal 2010. Adjusted operating margin decreased 140 basis points year-over-year for the quarter due primarily to additional spending in quality and increased sales promotional spending.
On July 26, 2010, the Company announced that it received final approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to manufacture and market OTC Cetirizine Cherry Syrup, 1mg/ml. Shipments began in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Cherry joins grape flavor cetirizine syrup in the Company's product portfolio, giving patients a choice of store brand flavors.
Nutritionals
The Nutritionals segment, which consists of infant formulas, infant and toddler foods, vitamins, minerals and supplements, as well as oral electrolyte solutions, reported first quarter net sales of $123 million, compared with $56 mi llion a year ago. The increase in sales was primarily the result of the acquisition of PBM. Adjusted operating income was $24 million compared to a loss of $2 million last year due to the addition of higher margin PBM sales and improved productivity in the Company's operations.
On August 25, 2010, the Company announced that it received FDA clearance to manufacture infant formula liquid concentrate and ready-to-use products through its partner Kerry Proteins and Nutritionals located in Sainte Claire, Quebec.
Rx Pharmaceuticals
The Rx Pharmaceuticals segment first quarter net sales were $69 million compared with $47 million a year ago, an increase of 47%. The increase in sales was driven by new product sales, primarily as a result of the Company obtaining the generic distribution rights to Aldara, as well as by higher volumes on existing products. Adjusted operating income was $20 million, an increase of $3 million from last year.
On September 8, 2010 the Company ann ounced that it received FDA approval to manufacture and market Imiquimod Cream, 5%. The product is the generic equivalent of Aldara Cream, 5%, a topical treatment for actinic keratoses on the face or scalp, superficial basal cell carcinoma, and external genital and perianal warts in patients 12 years old or older. The Company will manufacture and supply the active ingredient. Aldara had sales of approximately $382 million prior to generic market formation, as measured by Wolters Kluwer Health.
API
The API segment reported first quarter net sales of $37 million compared with $33 million a year ago. The increase was due primarily to sales of temozolomide in Europe, partially offset by a decline in existing products and $2 million in unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusted operating income increased $6 million or 141% due to strong gross margins.
Other
Continuing operations for the Other category, consisting of the Israel Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products operating segment, reported first quarter net sales of $16 million, compared with $12 million a year ago. The increase was due to increased sales of new and existing products, slightly offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Adjusted operating income was $1 million, up 42% from last year.
Guidance
Chairman and CEO Joseph C. Papa concluded, "Particularly in these challenging economic times, Perrigo is uniquely positioned to continue to save consumers billions of dollars annually on their healthcare spend while also adding value for our customers and shareholders. As a result of our first quarter performance, continued strong demand for our products in the Consumer Healthcare and Nutritionals businesses, and great execution and new product growth in the Rx and API businesses, we are raising our full year EPS guidance. We expect fiscal 2011 reported diluted earnings from continuing operations to be between $3.28 and $3.43 per share as com pared to $2.42 in fiscal 2010. Excluding the charges outlined in Table III at the end of this release, we expect fiscal 2011 adjusted diluted earnings from continuing operations to be between $3.60 and $3.75 per share, which implies a growth rate of 19% to 24% over last year. Perrigo is the right company, in the right place, at the right time."
Perrigo will host a conference call to discuss fiscal 2011 first quarter at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Tuesday, November 2. The conference call will be available live via webcast to interested parties on the Perrigo website http://www.perrigo.com or by phone 877-248-9413, International 973-582-2737 and reference ID# 17701913.  A taped replay of the call will be available beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. (ET) Tuesday, November 2, until midnight Friday, November 19, 2010. To listen to the replay, call 800-642-1687, International 706-645-9291, access code 17701913.
Perrigo Company is a leading global healthcare supplier that develops, manufactures and di stributes OTC and generic prescription (Rx) pharmaceuticals, infant formulas, nutritional products, active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and pharmaceutical and medical diagnostic products.  The Company is the world's largest store brand manufacturer of OTC pharmaceutical products and infant formulas. The Company's primary markets and locations of manufacturing and logistics operations are the United States, Israel, Mexico, the United Kingdom and Australia. Visit Perrigo on the Internet (http://www.perrigo.com).
: Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby. These statements relate to future events or the Company's future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the Company or its industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "intend," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential" or other comparable terminology. The Company has based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections.  While the Company believes these expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control. These and other important factors, including those discussed under "Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 26, 2010, as well as the Com pany's subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made only as of the date hereof, and unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Note
5.0%
CONTACT: Arthur J. Shannon, Vice President, Investor Relations and Communication, +1-269-686-1709, ajshannon@perrigo.com; or Daniel B. Willard, Manager, Investor Relations and Communication, +1-269-686-1597, dbwillard@perrigo.com


