FILE:PRGO/PRGO-8K-20110126114024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
ITEM 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 20, 2011, Perrigo Company (the ""), Paddock Laboratories, Inc. (""), Paddock Properties Limited Partnership (", and together with Paddock, the "") and certain affiliates of Sellers as Guarantors entered into a Purchase Agreement (the "") whereby the Company will acquire substantially all of the assets of Paddock, a privately-held, Minneapolis-based, manufacturer and marketer of generic pharmaceutical products (the ""). The Company will pay an aggregate purchase price of $540 million in cash (the ""), which is intended to be funded through a combination of (a) approximately $80 million of cash on hand, (b) $310 million available under the Company's existing bank debt agreements, and (c) $150 million from a new Term Loan (defined and described below in Item 2.03). No debt or cash of the Sellers will be assumed by the Company in the Paddock Acquisition.
Company
Paddock
Paddock Properties
Sellers
Purchase Agreement
Paddock Acquisition
Cash Purchase Price
The completion of the Paddock Acquisition is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, that (i) the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ""), has expired or been terminated, (ii) subject to certain materiality exceptions, the representations and warranties made by the Company and the Sellers, respectively, are true and correct and (iii) the Company and the Sellers are in compliance in all material respects with their respective Purchase Agreement obligations.
HSR Act
The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants by the parties. At the closing of the Paddock Acquisition, the Company will pay $54 million of the Cash Purchase Price into an escrow account that will be used to satisfy any obligation of the Sellers to pay post-closing adjustments to the purchase price and to pay any indemnification claims, including claims relating to breaches of the Sellers' representations and warranties (subject to certain materiality exceptions) or of the Sellers' covenants or agreements pursuant to the Purchase Agreement. The Company's indemnification claims are subject to a deductible of 1.0% of the Cash Purchase Price and limited to a cap of $54 million.
The Company or Paddock may terminate the Purchase Agreement if all of the conditions to the obligations of the Company and the Sellers (subject to certain specified exceptions) have been satisfied or waived and the Paddock Acquisition has not been consummated by July 19, 2011 (which may be extended to October 17, 2011, if any applicable review period in connection with the HSR Act has not ended or any approval required thereunder has not yet been received, or if the Company is in the process of obtaining certain permits from the U.S. Department of Justice or the Minnesota Board of Pharmacy).
The Purchase Agreement provides that, concurrent with the completion of the Paddock Acquisition, Bruce Paddock will enter into a non-competition agreement with the Company (the ""). The Paddock Non-Competition Agreement will provide that Mr. Paddock will not compete, directly or indirectly, (i) until the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date (as defined by the Purchase Agreement), with the products manufactured, distributed, sold or marketed by Paddock and the products selected and approved by Paddock's Product Selection Committee (the ""); or (ii) until the second anniversary of the Closing Date (as defined in the Purchase Agreement), with the business of developing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing generic pharmaceutical and over-the-counter products (the ""). The Paddock Non-Competition Agreement also will provide that, until the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date (as defined in the Purchase Agreement), Mr. Paddock will not solicit any employees of the Company or customers of the Company who are also customers of the Business.
Paddock Non-Competition Agreement
Products
Business
 
The information set forth above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Purchase Agreement, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
    
ITEM 2.03.
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
On January 20, 2011, concurrent with the execution of the Purchase Agreement, the Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agents, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners and the lender parties therein listed entered into a Term Loan Agreement (the ""). Under the Term Loan Agreement, each of Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A. (collectively, the "") committed to provide a term loan commitment of $50 million for an initial term loan of $150 million (the ""). The Term Loan Agreement permits the Company, subject to certain conditions, to increase the total amount of the Term Loan by adding one or more additional lenders or by obtaining an increased commitment from the Initial Lenders. Pursuant to meeting certain conditions of agreements with the Initial Lenders and the limitations of the Company's authorizing resolutions, the Company may increase the amount of the Term Loans to $250 million. The Company will use the Term Loan to pay a portion of the Cash Purchase Price of the Paddock Acquisition, together with related costs and expenses.
Term Loan Agreement
Initial Lenders
Term Loan
The obligations under the Term Loan are guaranteed by certain of the Company's subsidiaries. Upon delivery of proper notice and certain other conditions described in the Term Loan Agreement, the Term Loan will qualify as an "Additional Permitted Secured Debt Tranche" under the Company's existing Intercreditor Agreement (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) and will be secured, on a ratable basis with certain other existing debt, by a lien on certain collateral of certain of the Company's subsidiaries.
Interest on the Term Loan is payable quarterly on April 15, July 15, October 15, and January 15 in each year. The portion of the Term Loan comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the highest of (i) the "prime" rate publicly announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. from time to time at its principal office in Chicago, (ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50%, and (iii) the Adjusted One Month LIBOR Rate. The portion of the Term Loan comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect plus the Applicable Rate. To the extent permitted by law, any overdue payment of principal or interest shall bear interest at a rate per annum from time to time equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to the ABR Loans.
Upon notice as provided in the Term Loan Agreement, the Company may prepay at any time all or any part of the Term Loan.
In the Term Loan Agreement, the Company makes certain representations and warranties and, while any of the Term Loan is outstanding, agrees to comply with certain affirmative covenants addressing, among other matters, the maintenance of its corporate existence, compliance with laws, and the provision of certain financial information and reports. The Company also agrees to be bound by certain negative covenants while the Term Loan is outstanding addressing, among other matters, additional liens, mergers or consolidations, and sale of assets. Additionally, the Company agrees, among other things, that it will not permit, as of the end of any fiscal quarter (i) the ratio of Consolidated Indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA, in each case for the then most recently completed four fiscal quarters (the ""), to be greater than 3.25 to 1.0 (subject to certain exceptions); or (ii) the ratio of Consolidated EBIT to Consolidated Interest Expense, in each case for the then most recently completed four fiscal quarters, to be less than 3.0 to 1.0. Upon the consummation of a Qualified Acquisition (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement), the Company may
Leverage Ratio
increase the permitted Leverage Ratio to no greater than 3.5 to 1.0 for three succeeding fiscal quarters after the Qualified Acquisition.
 
Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may terminate the Term Loan commitments and declare the Term Loans outstanding, together with all accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. An Event of Default (as more fully defined in the Term Loan Agreement) includes, among other things, nonpayment of the principal of or interest on the Term Loan when due or a breach of any covenants contained in the Term Loan Agreement, the occurrence of any event or condition that results in any Material Indebtedness (as defined in the Term Loan Agreement) of the Company becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits the holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent thereof to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain Events of Default relating to liquidation, bankruptcy or insolvency, the Term Loan commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Term Loans then outstanding, together all accrued interest, shall automatically become due and payable.
The information set forth above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Term Loan Agreement, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
    
ITEM 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of January 20, 2011 (this ""), is entered into by and among Perrigo Company, a Michigan corporation (""), Paddock Laboratories, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the ""), Paddock Properties Limited Partnership, a Minnesota limited partnership ("" and, with the Company, each a "" and together the ""), and, solely for purposes of Section 11.15, each of the Persons set forth on (the ""). Each Seller and Purchaser may be referred to herein individually as a "" and collectively as the "".
Agreement
Purchaser
Company
Paddock Properties
Seller
Sellers
Exhibit A
Guarantors
Party
Parties
WHEREAS, the Company is engaged in the business of developing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing generic pharmaceutical and over-the-counter products (the "");
Business
WHEREAS, the Company holds all of the issued and outstanding equity interests in CitrusPharma LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (the "");
Subsidiary
WHEREAS, Paddock Properties owns the Real Estate (as defined herein); and
WHEREAS, the Sellers and the Subsidiary desire to sell, assign, transfer and deliver to Purchaser, and Purchaser desires to purchase, assume and accept from the Sellers and the Subsidiary, all right, title and interest in, to and under the Transferred Assets (as hereinafter defined), upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the representations, warranties and covenants contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.1 . When used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them in this Section 1.1.
Definitions
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with such first Person and the term "control" (including the terms "controlled by" and "under common control with") means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Agreement
"" means any Law that is designed to prohibit, restrict or regulate actions involving antitrust or competition or having the purpose or effect of monopolization or restraint of trade, including the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, as amended, the Sherman Act, as amended, the Clayton Act, as amended, and the Federal Trade Commission Act, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated under each of the foregoing.
Antitrust Law
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.10.
Balance Sheet
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.10.
Balance Sheet Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4(a).
Basket
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.
Business
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks located in New York, New York and Minneapolis, Minnesota are authorized or required by law to close.
Business Day
"" mean those common law employees employed by the Company as of the Closing Date.
Business Employees
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.4(b).
Cap
"" means the sum of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments, plus all deposited but uncleared bank deposits and cash held by counterparties, and less all outstanding checks and cash posted by counterparties, in each case whether restricted or unrestricted.
Cash Equivalents
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.
Cash Purchase Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.20(a).
Cell Tower Lease Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.20(a)
Cell Tower Site
"" means (i) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Mary Lou Freathy and the Company; (ii) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Angela Haas and the Company; (iii) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Ed Maloney and the Company; (iv) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Jim Schwier and the Company; (v) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Allan Slizewski and the Company; (vi) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Paul Stach and the Company; (vii) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Phil Thompson and the Company; (viii) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Lonny Wittnebel and the Company; (ix) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Bonnie Wojcik and the Company; and (x) that certain Change of Control Agreement, dated September 1, 2010, entered into by and between Lynn Dalhstrom and the Company.
Change of Control Agreements
 
"" means the discretionary bonuses payable to each of Mary Lou Freathy, Ed Maloney, Jim Schwier, Allan Slizewski, Paul Stach, Lonny Wittnebel and Bonnie Wojcik pursuant to Section 3.3(b) of his or her respective Change of Control Agreement.
Change of Control Discretionary Bonuses
"" means the retention bonuses payable to each of (i) Mary Lou Freathy, Ed Maloney, Jim Schwier, Allan Slizewski, Paul Stach, Lonny Wittnebel and Bonnie Wojcik pursuant to Section 3.3(a) of his or her respective Change of Control Agreement, and (ii) Angela Haas and Phil Thompson pursuant to Section 3.3 of his or her respective Change of Control Agreement.
Change of Control Retention Bonuses
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(b).
Claim
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(b).
Claim Notice
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(a).
Closing
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(a).
Closing Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a)(i).
Closing Date Debt Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a)(i).
Closing Date Schedule of Adjustments
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a)(i).
Closing Date Working Capital
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Company
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.16(a).
Company Benefit Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.5.
Company Leases
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.16(b).
Company Pension Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.5.
Company Properties
"" means the Paddock Laboratories, Inc. 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan.
Company's 401(k) Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(a).
Competing Business
"" means the Confidentiality Agreement, dated as of July 16, 2010, entered into by the Company and Purchaser.
Confidentiality Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(b).
Consent
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(a).
Continuing Employee
"" means any written or oral contract, agreement, indenture, note, bond, mortgage, loan, instrument, lease, commitment or other arrangement or agreement.
Contract
"" means all Indebtedness of the Company and the Subsidiary, and all Indebtedness of Paddock Properties relating to the Transferred Assets owned by it, in each case, outstanding as of the Closing Date, including, in each case, all principal, accrued but unpaid interest, premiums, prepayment penalties and costs and expenses associated therewith.
Debt Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
Due Date
"" means (i) that certain Employment Agreement, dated August 24, 2010, entered into by and between Yogesh Dandiker and the Company, (ii) that certain Employment Agreement, dated July 23, 2010, entered into by and between Michael Graves and the Company, and (iii) that certain Offer Letter, dated June 24, 2010, entered into by and between Wendy Ward and the Company.
Employment Agreements
"" means any Law, Order or Contract with any Governmental Body relating to pollution, the protection of human health and the environment, worker health and safety, and/or governing the handling, use, generation, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal, manufacture, distribution, formulation, packaging labeling, Release of or exposure to a Hazardous Material; , that the foregoing definition shall not be interpreted to include any matter regulated by the FDA or subject to Product Approvals.
Environmental Law
provided
"" means any federal, state, local, provincial, or foreign permits, licenses, approvals, consents or authorizations required by any Governmental Body under or in connection with any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the related regulations and published interpretations.
ERISA
"" means any Person who is, or at any time was, a member of a controlled group (within the meaning of Section 412(n)(6)(B) of the Code) that includes, or at any time included, the Company or any Affiliate thereof, or any predecessor of any of the foregoing.
ERISA Affiliate
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(b)(ii).
Escrow Agent
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(b)(ii).
Escrow Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(b)(ii).
Escrow Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
Estimated Debt Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
Estimated Schedules of Adjustments
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
Estimated Working Capital
"" means, collectively, the assets set forth in .
Excluded Assets
Schedule 1.1(a)
"" means, collectively, the liabilities set forth in .
Excluded Liabilities
Schedule 1.1(b)
"" means that certain manufacturing facility, located at Outlot A, Village Industrial Park, Hennepin County, Minnesota a/k/a 3940 Quebec Avenue North, New Hope, Minnesota.
Facility
"" means the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or a successor thereto.
FDA
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(b).
Final Adjustment
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(b).
Final Debt Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(b).
Final Working Capital
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.10.
Financial Statements
"" means the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.
FTC
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(b).
Funds Flow Schedule
"" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied throughout the periods involved.
GAAP
"" means any government or any governmental or regulatory body or administrative or self-regulatory authority or political subdivision or instrumentality thereof, whether federal, state, local or foreign, or any agency, bureau, board, commission, department, instrumentality or authority thereof, or any court, judicial body, arbitrator or tribunal (public or private).
Governmental Body
"" has the meaning set forth in the Preamble hereto.
Guarantors
"" means any substance, material or waste (i) that is regulated, classified, or otherwise characterized under or pursuant to any Environmental Law as "hazardous" or "toxic" or words of similar meaning or effect, including petroleum, petroleum products, petroleum by-products, toxic mold, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls and radioactive materials; or (ii) for which liability can be imposed under Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Material
"" means any of the following: (a) any indebtedness for borrowed money, (b) any obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (c) any obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable and other current Liabilities arising in the Ordinary Course of Business, (d) any obligations as lessee under capitalized leases, (e) any indebtedness created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to acquired property, (f) any obligations, contingent or otherwise, under acceptance credit, letters of credit or similar facilities and (g) any guaranty of any obligation described in the foregoing clauses (a) through (f) on behalf of any other Person.
Indebtedness
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3(a)(ii).
Independent Accountant
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
Initial Payment
"" means any and all of the following as they exist in all jurisdictions throughout the world: (i) Patents (ii) trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade dress, domain names, brand names, certification marks, logos, corporate names and other indications of origin, together with all goodwill related to the foregoing, (iii) copyrights and designs, applications for registrations of copyrights, and copyrightable works and all rights associated therewith and the underlying works of authorship, (iv) all inventions, invention certificates, trade secrets, discoveries, processes, formulae, methods, schematics, drawings, blue prints, utility models, designs and design applications, technology, know-how, software, ideas and improvements, technical data, databases, mask works, customer lists, and other proprietary or confidential information and materials, (v) computer software programs, including all source code, object code and documentation relating thereto, and (vi) all rights in the foregoing.
Intellectual Property
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or successor thereto.
IRS
"" means Michael Graves, Lonny Wittnebel, Yogesh Dandiker and Jim Schwier.
Key Employees
"" means the actual knowledge after reasonable inquiry of Bruce Paddock, Michael Graves, Lonny Wittnebel, Phil Thompson, Yogesh Dandiker and Jim Schwier.
Knowledge of the Company
"" means any federal, state, local or foreign law (including common law), statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation or other requirement.
Law
"" means any judicial, administrative or arbitral claim, action, complaint, hearing, petition, suit, mediation, litigation, investigation, examination, inspection or other proceeding, at law or in equity, in any case, by or before a Governmental Body.
Legal Proceeding
"" means any and all debts, liabilities, obligations, deficiencies, penalties, assessments, fines, claims, causes of action or other losses, fees, costs or expenses, whether accrued or fixed, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, due or to become due and whether arising under any Order, Contract or otherwise.
Liabilities
"" means Intellectual Property licensed to the Company by a third party.
Licensed Intellectual Property
"" means any lien, claim, charge, right of way, pledge, security interest, option, right of first refusal or offer, easement, right of others, mortgage, deed of trust, hypothecation, conditional sale, servitude, transfer restriction under any Law, shareholder or similar Contract or similar encumbrance.
Lien
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2.
Losses
"" means any change, effect, circumstance or event that is materially adverse to the business, assets, liabilities, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and the Subsidiary, taken as a whole, or the ability of the Sellers to perform their obligations hereunder, except for any change, effect, circumstance or event that arises out of, results from or is attributable to (a) any change in conditions in the United States, foreign or global economy or capital or financial markets, including any change in interest or exchange rates; (b) any regulatory, political or economic condition generally affecting the generic pharmaceuticals industry; (c) changes in GAAP or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by a Governmental Body; (d) the execution and announcement of this Agreement, including any effect on customer, supplier, distributor, licensor, licensee, employee or similar relationships resulting therefrom; (e) any natural disaster, hostilities, act of terrorism or war (whether declared, pending or threatened) or the material escalation or material worsening of any such natural disaster, hostilities, acts of terrorism or war; or (f) the adoption, implementation, promulgation, repeal, modification or reinterpretation by any Governmental Body of any Order, government program, industry standard or applicable Law; except, in the case of each of (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f), for any such change, effect, circumstance or event that has a disproportionate effect on the Business, taken as a whole, compared to other participants in the businesses and industries in which the Business operates.
Material Adverse Effect
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.15(a).
Material Contracts
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(b).
Non-Assignable Asset
"" means that certain non-competition agreement, substantially in the form of hereto, between Purchaser and Bruce G. Paddock.
Non-Compete Agreement
Exhibit B
"" means any order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling, writ, assessment or award of a Governmental Body.
Order
"" means the ordinary and usual course of day to day operations of the Business as conducted consistent with past practice prior to the date hereof.
Ordinary Course of Business
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b).
Outstanding Owed Amounts
"" means any taxable period that begins before and ends after the Closing Date.
Overlap Period
"" means all Intellectual Property owned, or purported by the Company to be owned, by the Company.
Owned Intellectual Property
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Paddock Properties
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Paddock Properties Purchase Price
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.7(a).
Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Parties
"" means patents, patent applications (including provisional applications, non-provisional applications, utility and statutory invention registrations), including reissues, divisions, continuations, continuations-in-part, and reexaminations thereof, all inventions disclosed therein, all rights therein provided by international treaties and conventions, all applicable foreign counterpart patents and patent applications, all rights to obtain patents and registrations thereto, as well as any extensions, renewals, supplementary protection certificates or the like applicable to any and all of the foregoing.
Patents
"" means any approval, authorization, consent, license, permit, registration, waiver or certificate granted or issued by or obtained from a Governmental Body.
Permit
"" means (a) any Lien arising in the Ordinary Course of Business with respect to a Liability that is not yet delinquent or the amount or validity of which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and only to the extent for which accruals or reserves under GAAP have been established and taken into account in the calculation of Final Working Capital; (b) any Lien for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges not yet delinquent or the amount or validity of which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and only to the extent for which accruals or reserves under GAAP have been established and taken into account in the calculation of Final Working Capital; (c) title of a lessor under a capital or operating lease made available to Purchaser; (d) zoning, entitlement and other land use Laws by any Governmental Body; that such Laws have not been violated; (e) all defects, exceptions, restrictions, easements, rights of way and encumbrances disclosed (whether or not subsequently deleted or endorsed over) on any survey, in the title policies insuring the Real Estate or in any title commitments, title reports or other title materials, in each case to the extent made available to Purchaser, including the Title Commitment, together with all exceptions to title insurance coverage that customarily or of necessity are not or cannot be removed or that Purchaser agrees in writing to accept; (f) matters that are the obligations of tenants, subtenants or other occupants of any portion of the Real Estate; (f) pledges and deposits made in the Ordinary Course of Business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other applicable social security Laws; (g) any Lien set forth on that will be released at or prior to the Closing; (h) statutory or common law Liens in favor of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics and materialmen, and statutory or common law Liens to secure claims for labor, materials or supplies, which Liens have arisen in the Ordinary Course of Business and are not yet delinquent or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and only to the extent for which accruals or reserves under GAAP have been established and taken into account in the calculation of Final Working Capital; and (i) the matters identified on ; provided that, in the case of clauses (a) through (i), such encumbrances, individually or in the aggregate, do not impair, in any material respect, the conduct of the Business or the continued use of any asset or property of the Company or the Subsidiary as presently used.
Permitted Exception
provided
Schedule 1.1(c)
Schedule 1.1(d)
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, limited liability company, unincorporated organization, Governmental Body or other entity.
Person
 
"" means any taxable period or portion thereof beginning after the Closing Date. If a taxable period begins on or prior to the Closing Date and ends after the Closing Date, then the portion of the taxable period that begins on the day following the Closing Date shall constitute a Post-Closing Period.
Post-Closing Period
"" means any taxable period or portion thereof that is not a Post-Closing Period.
Pre-Closing Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4.
Product Escrow Release
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.14.
Products
"" means all Permits (including approvals of NDAs and ANDAs, pricing and third party reimbursement approvals and labeling approvals) legally required for the development, testing (including the conducting of clinical trials), manufacturing, processing, distribution, importation, marketing, storage, labeling, packaging, promotion, sale, offer for sale or use of any Products.
Product Approvals
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.11.
Proposal
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.
Purchase Price
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Purchaser
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(c).
Purchaser Benefit Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2.
Purchaser Documents
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2.
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.5(b).
Real Estate
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Real Estate Purchase Price
"" means all (i) Patents, (ii) trademark, trade name and service mark registrations (including Internet domain name registrations) and applications therefor, and (iii) copyright registrations and applications.
Registered Intellectual Property
"" means any and all applications and submissions by the Company for Product Approvals, and all supplements, amendments and revisions thereto, whether approved or not.
Regulatory Applications
"" or "" means any national, regional or local Governmental Body having jurisdiction over the approval of drugs and pharmaceutical products, including medical devices and price approvals, in any given jurisdiction, including the FDA.
Regulatory Authority
Regulatory Authorities
 
"" means all files of the Company or the Subsidiary with respect to (a) all adverse event reports and other material data, information and materials relating to adverse experiences and other safety issues with respect to the Products, (b) all material correspondence between the Company or the Subsidiary, on the one hand, and any Governmental Body, on the other hand, relating to the Products, including any safety reports or updates, complaint files and product quality reviews, all clinical or pre clinical data derived from clinical studies conducted or sponsored by, or on behalf of Company, and (c) all other material documents, reports, records and other data, information and materials relevant to compliance with the applicable Law relating to the Products and the Company's and the Subsidiary's activities concerning the development, testing (including conducting clinical trials), manufacture, processing, distribution, importation, marketing, storage, labeling, packaging, promotion, or sale of the Products.
Regulatory Files
"" means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, migrating, leaching, dumping, or disposing of a Hazardous Material.
Release
"" means all actions to (a) clean up, remove, treat or in any other way address any Hazardous Material; (b) prevent the release of any Hazardous Material so it does not endanger or threaten to endanger public health or welfare or the indoor or outdoor environment; (c) perform pre-remedial studies and investigations or post-remedial monitoring and care; or (d) correct a condition of noncompliance with Environmental Laws.
Remedial Action
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(a).
Restricted Period
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(b).
Retention and Severance Amounts
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.20(b).
ROFR
"" means (i) the Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement, dated May 2007, entered into by and between Michael Graves and the Company and (ii) the Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement, dated August 24, 2010, entered into by and between Yogesh Dandiker and the Company.
SAR Agreements
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2.
Seller Documents
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.3.
Seller Indemnified Parties
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Sellers
"" means the Company Properties and any other real properties currently or previously owned, leased, operated or occupied by: (i) the Company or the Subsidiary or (ii) any entities previously owned by the Company or the Subsidiary, including all soil, subsoil, surface waters and groundwater thereat.
Site
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.20(a).
SSLP
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.20(a).
STC V
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Subsidiary
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
Survival Periods
"" means $39,800,000.
Target Amount
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.4.
Tax Benefit
"" means (i) all federal, state, local or foreign taxes, charges, fees, imposts, levies or other assessments, including all net or gross income, gross receipts, net proceeds, capital, sales, use, ad valorem, value added, transfer, franchise, profits, inventory, capital stock, license, withholding, payroll, employment, social security, unemployment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, property, abandoned property, escheat, alternative, add-on minimum, windfall profits, premium, environmental, profits, workman's compensation and estimated taxes, customs duties, fees, assessments and charges of any kind whatsoever, whether disputed or not, and (ii) all interest, penalties, fines, additions to tax or additional amounts imposed by any taxing authority or Governmental Body in connection with any item described in clause (i).
Taxes
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
Tax Package
"" means a report, return, declaration, election, agreement, claim for refund, or information return or statement, including any schedule or attachment thereto, and including any amendment thereof, in each case to the extent filed or required to be filed with a taxing authority with respect to Taxes.
Tax Return
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.1.
Tax Return Statement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5(a).
Third Party Notice
"" means that certain title commitment, dated as of September 27, 2010, issued by Chicago Title Insurance Company.
Title Commitment
"" means all assets, properties, contractual rights, intellectual property, goodwill, going concern value, rights and claims of the Company and the Subsidiary, other than the Excluded Assets, and all assets and properties of Paddock Properties used by the Company in the operation of the Business, including the Real Estate.
Transferred Assets
"" means all obligations and liabilities associated with the ownership or operation of the Business or the Transferred Assets, whether existing or arising prior to, on or after the Closing, but expressly excluding (a) all obligations and liabilities relating to or arising out of the Excluded Assets and (b) the Excluded Liabilities.
Transferred Liabilities
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.17.
WARN Act
"" means (a) all current assets included in the Transferred Assets, net of all reserves and allowances applicable to such current assets, less (b) the current liabilities included in the Transferred Liabilities (but excluding the Transferred Liabilities set forth in ), in each case, determined in accordance with GAAP as of the Closing.
Working Capital
Schedule 1.1(e)
 
Section 1.2 .
Construction
(a) For the purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided herein or unless the context otherwise requires: (i) words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number, respectively, and the use of any gender herein shall be deemed to include the other genders; (ii) references herein to "Articles," "Sections," "subsections" and other subdivisions, and to Exhibits, Schedules, Annexes and other attachments, without reference to a document are to the specified Articles, Sections, subsections and other subdivisions of, and Exhibits, Schedules, Annexes and other attachments to, this Agreement; (iii) a reference to a subsection or other subdivision without further reference to a Section is a reference to such subsection or subdivision as contained in the same Section in which the reference appears; (iv) the words "herein", "hereof", "hereunder", "hereby" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision; (v) the words "include", "includes" and "including" are deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation"; (vi) all accounting terms used and not defined herein have the respective meanings given to them under GAAP; (vii) any reference in this Agreement to $ or dollars shall mean U.S. dollars; and (viii) the words "made available to Purchaser" and words of similar import refer to documents (A) posted to the Intralinks, Inc. datasite by or on behalf of the Company and reflected on the datasite index, dated as of the date hereof, set forth in or (B) delivered in person or electronically to Purchaser and/or its representatives and advisors.
Schedule 1.2(a)
(b) Whenever this Agreement refers to a number of days, such number shall refer to calendar days unless Business Days are specified. Whenever any action must be taken hereunder on or by a day that is not a Business Day, then such action may be validly taken on or by the next day that is a Business Day.
(c) Each Party acknowledges that it and its attorneys have been given an equal opportunity to negotiate the terms and conditions of this Agreement and that any rule of construction to the effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting Party or any similar rule operating against the drafter of an agreement shall not be applicable to the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Section 2.1 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained in this Agreement, on the Closing Date (a) the Company shall, and shall cause the Subsidiary to, sell, assign, transfer and deliver to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase, assume and accept from the Company and the Subsidiary, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Exceptions, all right, title and interest in, to and under the Transferred Assets owned by the Company and the Subsidiary, and (b) Paddock Properties shall sell, assign, transfer and deliver to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase, assume and accept from Paddock Properties, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Exceptions, all right, title and interest in, to and under the Transferred Assets owned by Paddock Properties. Subject to Article VIII, at the Closing Purchaser shall assume and discharge when due all Transferred Liabilities.
Sale and Purchase of Transferred Assets; Assumption of Transferred Liabilities
 
Section 3.1 .
Purchase Price; Allocation
(a) The aggregate purchase price payable by Purchaser for the Transferred Assets is $540,000,000 (the ""), as adjusted pursuant to Section 3.2(a) and Section 3.3. The Cash Purchase Price, following all adjustments required hereunder is referred to as the "." The Purchase Price shall be payable in accordance with Section 3.2.
Cash Purchase Price
Purchase Price
(b) Promptly following the date hereof, Purchaser and Paddock Properties shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to agree on the fair market value of the Real Estate and the aggregate fair market value of the other Transferred Assets owned by Paddock Properties. If Purchaser and Paddock Properties cannot promptly agree on such values, then Paddock Properties shall engage a mutually agreeable independent appraiser to determine such values, which engagement shall be made sufficiently in advance of the Closing Date so as to enable the appraiser to deliver such values no later than the Closing Date. The costs of the appraiser shall be shared equally by Paddock Properties, on the one hand, and Purchaser, on the other hand. The Parties hereby agree that the portion of the Cash Purchase Price allocated to the Real Estate shall be referred to herein as the "" and the Real Estate Purchase Price, together with the portion of the Cash Purchase Price allocated to the other Transferred Assets owned by Paddock Properties, shall be referred to herein as the "".
Real Estate Purchase Price
Paddock Properties Purchase Price
Section 3.2 .
Payment of Cash Purchase Price
(a) . Not later than five Business Days prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall prepare and deliver to Purchaser a schedule (the ")" setting forth in reasonable detail (and together with reasonable supporting documentation) the Company's good faith estimate of: (A) the Working Capital (the "") and the difference between the Estimated Working Capital and the Target Amount; and (B) the Debt Amount (the ""). The Estimated Schedule of Adjustments and the Estimated Working Capital shall be prepared and calculated in accordance with GAAP. To the extent that the Estimated Working Capital is less than the Target Amount, the Cash Purchase Price shall be decreased by the amount of such deficiency, and to the extent that the Estimated Working Capital is greater than the Target Amount, the Cash Purchase Price shall be increased by the amount of such excess. The Cash Purchase Price plus or minus the adjustment contemplated in this Section 3.2(a), as the case may be, is referred to as the "".
Pre-Closing Purchase Price Adjustment
Estimated Schedule of Adjustments
Estimated Working Capital
Estimated Debt Amount
Initial Payment
 
(b) . On the Closing Date, Purchaser shall pay the Initial Payment, in immediately available funds and in accordance with a flow of funds schedule to be prepared and delivered by the Company to Purchaser not later than five Business Days prior to the Closing Date (the ""), as follows:
Payment of Initial Payment
Funds Flow Schedule
(i) . To the extent not paid by the Company prior to the Closing, Purchaser shall pay, on behalf of the Sellers and as a deduction from the Initial Payment, the Estimated Debt Amount in accordance with the instructions set forth in the Funds Flow Schedule.
Payment of Estimated Debt Amount
(ii) . Purchaser shall pay (or cause to be paid) to JPMorgan Chase Bank (the ""), in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of an Escrow Agreement substantially in the form of attached hereto (the ""), the amount of $54 million (the ""). The Escrow Amount shall be held in escrow in accordance with the terms of the Escrow Agreement to satisfy the obligations, if any, of the Sellers under Section 3.3 and Article VIII, and shall be released in accordance with the terms of the Escrow Agreement.
Payment of the Escrow Amount
Escrow Agent
Exhibit C
Escrow Agreement
Escrow Amount
(iii) . After the payments contemplated by Sections 3.2(b)(i) and 3.2(b)(ii) are made, Purchaser shall pay (A) the Paddock Properties Purchase Price, Purchaser's portion of the costs of any appraiser engaged pursuant to Section 3.1(b), to Paddock Properties and (B) the remainder of the Initial Payment to the Company.
Payment to the Sellers
plus
Section 3.3 .
Post-Closing Purchase Price Adjustment
(a) .
Calculation of Adjustment
(i) Not later than 90 days after the Closing Date, Purchaser will prepare, or cause to be prepared, and deliver to the Company a schedule (the "") setting forth in reasonable detail (and together with reasonable supporting documentation) Purchaser's computation of: (A) the Working Capital (the ""); (B) the Debt Amount (the ""); and (C) (1) the difference between the Closing Date Working Capital and the Estimated Working Capital, and (2) the difference between the Closing Date Debt Amount and the Estimated Debt Amount. The Company shall have a period of 30 days after receipt of the Closing Date Schedule of Adjustments to deliver to Purchaser any objections that the Company may have to any of the matters set forth therein, which objections shall be set forth in writing and in reasonable detail and include the Company's calculations of the relevant amounts. During such 30-day period, Purchaser shall grant to the Company and its agents and representatives reasonable access, during normal business hours and upon reasonable notice, in such a manner as to not materially interfere with normal operation of Purchaser's business, to the books, records and other documents (including work papers) pertaining to or used in connection with the preparation of the Closing Date Schedule of Adjustments. If the Company does not deliver any written objections to Purchaser within such 30-day period, the Company shall be deemed to have accepted the Closing Date Schedule of Adjustments and Purchaser's calculations of the Closing Date Working Capital and Closing Date Debt Amount, and the Company shall have irrevocably waived any right to object thereto. If the Company does timely deliver such written objections, Purchaser and the Company shall, for a period of 30 days thereafter, attempt to resolve such objections in good faith.
Closing Date Schedule of Adjustments
Closing Date Working Capital
Closing Date Debt Amount
 
(ii) If the Company and Purchaser do not resolve all such objections to the Closing Date Schedule of Adjustments within such 30-day period, then any remaining disputes shall be submitted not later than five Business Days after the expiration of the 30-day period to KPMG LLP (the ""). The Independent Accountant shall be instructed to deliver a decision solely with respect to the items to which the Company has objected, and any other matters referred to it for determination, within ten Business Days after the submission of such matters to the Independent Accountant. The Independent Accountant shall be instructed that its decision shall be in writing and shall include (x) a statement describing in reasonable detail the decision of the Independent Accountant with respect to each item in dispute and (y) a computation of the Working Capital and/or the Debt Amount, as applicable. The Independent Accountant shall consider only those items and amounts that are identified by Purchaser and the Company as items and amounts upon which the Parties are unable to agree. The decision of the Independent Accountant shall be final and binding and conclusive upon Purchaser and the Company for all purposes under this Agreement (absent fraud or manifest error by the Independent Accountant); , , that (1) the determination of the Independent Accountant of the Working Capital shall not be higher than the amount determined by the Company or lower than the amount determined by Purchaser, and (2) the determination of the Independent Accountant of the Debt Amount shall not be higher than the amount determined by Purchaser or lower than the amount determined by the Company. The fees and expenses of the Independent Accountant shall be shared equally by Purchaser and the Company.
Independent Accountant
provided
however
(b) . The Working Capital and the Debt Amount, each as finally determined in accordance with Section 3.3(a), based on (i) Purchaser's computations (if not disputed by the Company), (ii) the agreement of the Company and Purchaser or (iii) the determination of the Independent Accountant, as the case may be, are referred to herein as the "" and "", respectively. Not later than five Business Days after the Final Working Capital and Final Debt Amount are finally determined:
Payment of Adjustment
Final Working Capital
Final Debt Amount
(i) (A) if the Final Working Capital is greater than the Estimated Working Capital, then Purchaser shall pay to the Company the amount of such excess or (B) if the Final Working Capital is less than the Estimated Working Capital, then, at Purchaser's option, the Company shall promptly pay, or the Company and Purchaser shall cause the Escrow Agent to promptly pay, to Purchaser the amount of such deficiency; and
(ii) (A) if the Final Debt Amount is less than the Estimated Debt Amount, then Purchaser shall pay to the Company the amount of such deficiency, or (B) if the Final Debt Amount is greater than the Estimated Debt Amount, then, at Purchaser's option, the Company shall promptly pay, or the Company and Purchaser shall cause the Escrow Agent to promptly pay, to Purchaser the amount of such excess.
All payments to be made pursuant to this Section 3.3(b) shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds, to accounts provided in writing by the applicable payee at least three Business Days before payment is to be made, no later than five Business Days after the final determination of the amounts required to be paid hereunder. Each Party shall be entitled to set off all amounts owed by it under this Section 3.3(b) against all amounts owed to it under this Section 3.3(b), such that only the net amount shall be payable by Purchaser to the Company or by the Company (out of the Escrow Amount) to Purchaser, as the case may be.
 
Section 3.4 .
Product Adjustment
(a) In the event that Purchaser, in its reasonable business judgment, determines at any time during the 12-month period immediately following the Closing that it is not in the best interest of Purchaser to commercially sell Liothyronine tablets due to quality-related or regulatory-related reasons, and thereafter Purchaser does not sell Liothyronine tablets for any consecutive three-month period (which three-month period must commence prior to the expiration of such 12-month period), Purchaser shall be entitled, in accordance with the Escrow Agreement, to instruct the Escrow Agent (with a copy of such instruction to the Company) to release from escrow to Purchaser an amount equal to $15,000,000 (a "").
Product Escrow Release
(b) If at any time during the six-month period following a Product Escrow Release, Purchaser resumes commercially selling Liothyronine tablets, Purchaser shall refund the full amount of the Product Escrow Release as follows: (i) if such refund is being made by Purchaser prior to the Termination Date (as such term is defined in the Escrow Agreement), Purchaser will refund the full amount of the Product Escrow Release to the Escrow Agent to be added to the Escrow Fund (as such term is defined in the Escrow Agreement); (ii) if such refund is being made after the Termination Date but before the date on which all amounts have been released from Escrow by the Escrow Agent pursuant to Section 4(f) of the Escrow Agreement and (A) the amount remaining in the Escrow Account is less than the aggregate Owed Amounts (as such term is defined in the Escrow Agreement) outstanding under non-cancelled Claim Certificates (as such term is defined in the Escrow Agreement) (the ""), Purchaser shall refund (I) an amount equal to the difference between the amount remaining in the Escrow Account at such time and the Outstanding Owed Amounts to the Escrow Agent to be added to the Escrow Amount and (II) the remainder of the Product Escrow Release amount to the Company or (B) the amount remaining in the Escrow Account is equal to or greater than the Outstanding Owed Amounts, Purchaser shall refund the full amount of the Product Escrow Release to the Company; and (iii) if such refund is being made by Purchaser after the date on which all amounts have been released from escrow by the Escrow Agent pursuant to Section 4(f) of the Escrow Agreement, Purchaser shall refund the full amount of the Product Escrow Release to the Company.
Outstanding Owed Amounts
(c) If Purchaser is not selling Liothyronine tablets at the end of the six-month period following a Product Escrow Release, then, promptly after the end of such period, Purchaser will either (i) refund the full amount of the Product Escrow Release in accordance with the refund mechanics set forth in the immediately preceding sentence or (ii) assign and transfer to the Company all of Purchaser's right, title and interest in and to the Liothyronine tablets, including all intellectual property, Product Approvals and that certain Supply and Distribution Agreement between the Company and Metrics, Inc., dated August 17, 2009 for Liothyronine tablets (and the Company shall assume all of the obligations of Purchaser under that certain Development Agreement between the Company and Metrics, Inc., dated July 29, 2005 that are related to Liothyronine tablets); that Purchaser and the Company shall cooperate to obtain all third party consents required to assign such assets. Purchaser acknowledges that the Product Escrow Release constitutes adequate consideration in respect of the assignments contemplated in the immediately preceding sentence.
provided
 
(d) Following a Product Escrow Release and until Purchaser either refunds the Product Escrow Release amount to the Escrow Agent or the Company or assigns all right, title and interest in and to the Liothyronine tablets to the Company, in each case as contemplated herein, Purchaser shall, within four Business Days after receipt by Purchaser's General Counsel or the head of Purchaser's Quality and Compliance Group, deliver to the Company copies of all written notices, correspondence or other communications received by it from a Regulatory Authority or other Governmental Body regarding Liothyronine tablets (including any such notices, correspondence or communications received by it prior to the Product Escrow Release).
Section 3.5 .
Closing; Closing Deliverables
(a) . The closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the "") shall take place at the offices of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, 51 West 52nd Street, New York, New York, at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date that is not later than three Business Days following the satisfaction or waiver of all the conditions to Closing set forth in Article VII (other than those conditions that can only be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions), or such other date, time and/or place as shall be agreed upon by the Company and Purchaser (the actual date and time being herein called the ""). At the Closing, Purchaser shall pay the Purchase Price in accordance with Section 3.2 and the Sellers shall, in consideration of such payments by Purchaser, cause the transfer to, and vesting in, Purchaser of the beneficial, record, legal and valid title to the Transferred Assets, free and clear of all Liens other than applicable Permitted Exceptions. The Closing shall be deemed to be effective as of 11:59 p.m. New York City Time on the Closing Date.
Closing
Closing
Closing Date
(b) . At the Closing, the Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to Purchaser the following:
Documents to be Delivered by the Company
(i) an instrument of assignment and bill of sale, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Purchaser, with respect to the Transferred Assets;
(ii) a limited warranty deed for the Real Estate, in statutory form, duly executed by Paddock Properties, and all affidavits or other documentation reasonably required by Purchaser and Purchaser's title company to consummate the transfer of fee simple and valid title to the Real Estate to Purchaser in accordance with this Agreement;
(iii) an intellectual property assignment agreement, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Purchaser, with respect to transferred Intellectual Property;
(iv) affidavits of non-foreign status that comply with Section 1445 of the Code and IRS Forms W-9, in each case, duly executed by each Seller;
(v) certificates (dated the Closing Date and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser) executed on behalf of the Company certifying as to the fulfillment of the conditions specified in Sections 7.1(a), 7.1(b) and 7.1(c), as applicable;
 
(vi) copies of all consents, approvals and notices listed on , in each case, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser;
Schedule 3.5(b)(vi)
(vii) payoff letters reflecting the final amount due as of the Closing Date for each item of Indebtedness comprising the Debt Amount, and copies of Lien releases in respect thereof;
(viii) evidence of the transfer of sponsorship of the Company's 401(k) Plan to Purchaser;
(ix) a counterpart to the Escrow Agreement, duly executed by the Company;
(x) a counterpart to the Non-Compete Agreement, duly executed by Bruce G. Paddock; and
(xi) subject to Section 6.20, either (A) a recorded copy of the easement granted by Paddock Properties in favor of STC V or (B) a counterpart of the Easement entered into by Purchaser in favor of Paddock Properties.
(c) . At the Closing, Purchaser shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Company the following:
Documents to be Delivered by Purchaser
(i) federal reserve reference numbers evidencing the payments referred to in Section 3.2(b);
(ii) an instrument of assumption, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Company, with respect to the Transferred Liabilities;
(iii) a certificate (dated the Closing Date and in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company) executed on behalf of Purchaser certifying as to the fulfillment of the conditions specified in Sections 7.2(a), 7.2(b) and 7.2(c);
(iv) a counterpart to the Escrow Agreement, duly executed by Purchaser;
(v) a counterpart to the Non-Compete Agreement, duly executed by Purchaser; and
(vi) subject to Section 6.20, a counterpart of the Easement entered into by Purchaser in favor of Paddock Properties, if applicable.
 
Section 3.6 .
Purchase Price Allocation; Withholding
(a) . The Sellers and Purchaser agree to allocate the Purchase Price in accordance with Section 1060 of the Code. The Sellers shall prepare and provide to Purchaser a draft allocation of the Purchase Price among the Transferred Assets within 60 days after the Closing Date. Purchaser shall notify the Sellers within 30 Business Days of receipt of such draft allocation of any objection Purchaser may have thereto. If Purchaser objects to the computations or allocation by the Sellers of such amounts, and Purchaser and the Sellers do not reach agreement on the computation or allocation within 30 days after notification by Purchaser of its objection, the Sellers and Purchaser shall submit the issue to arbitration by the Independent Accountant for resolution of the disagreement within ten days. The fees and expenses of the Independent Accountant shall be shared equally by Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Sellers, on the other hand. In addition, the Sellers and Purchaser hereby undertake and agree to file timely any information that may be required to be filed pursuant to Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 1060(b) of the Code, and shall use the allocation determined pursuant to this Section 3.6(a) in connection with the preparation of Internal Revenue Service Form 8594, as such form relates to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Neither of the Sellers nor Purchaser shall file any Tax Return or other document or otherwise take any position that is inconsistent with the allocation determined pursuant to this Section 3.6(a), except as the same may be adjusted by subsequent agreement following an audit by the IRS or by court decision.
Purchase Price Allocation
(b) . Purchaser will be entitled to deduct and withhold from the amounts otherwise payable by it pursuant to this Agreement to any Person such amounts as it determines may be required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of such payment under the Code, or any provision of state, local or foreign Tax Law, or with respect to any estimated Tax or withholding required to be made by the Company or the Subsidiary with respect to any Seller; that Purchaser shall not withhold with respect to the payment of any portion of the Purchase Price with respect to a Seller if such Seller provides a duly executed affidavit of non-foreign status that complies with Section 1445 of the Code and an IRS Form W-9 claiming a complete exemption from backup withholding; , that, prior to making such withholding (other than withholding on account of the failure by a Seller to provide an affidavit of non-foreign status that complies with Section 1445 of the Code or an IRS Form W-9, in each case, as required above), Purchaser shall notify the Sellers thereof and shall reasonably cooperate with the Sellers in connection with any objection the Sellers may have in respect of such determination by Purchaser. In the event that any amount is so deducted and withheld, such withheld amounts will be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the Person to whom the payment from which such amounts were withheld was made.
Withholding
provided
provided
further
Except as set forth in the disclosure schedules of the Company attached hereto and delivered to Purchaser concurrently herewith, the Company and Paddock Properties (with respect to Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5(b), 4.12, 4.20 and 4.25 only) hereby represent and warrant to Purchaser as follows:
Section 4.1 . Each Seller is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Minnesota and has all requisite corporate or limited partnership, as applicable, power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted. The Company is duly qualified or authorized to do business as a foreign company, and is in good standing, under the laws of each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases real property and each other jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or the ownership of its properties requires such qualification or authorization, except where the failure to be so qualified, authorized or in good standing does not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. A complete and correct list of the jurisdictions in which the Company is so qualified or licensed is set forth in .
Organization and Good Standing
Schedule 4.1
 
Section 4.2 . Each Seller has all requisite corporate or limited partnership, as applicable, power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and each other agreement, document, instrument or certificate contemplated by this Agreement to be executed by it in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the ""), and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution, delivery and performance by each Seller of this Agreement and each Seller Document to which it is party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or limited partnership, as applicable, action on behalf of such Seller. This Agreement has been, and each Seller Document will be at or prior to the Closing, duly executed and delivered by each Seller and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other Parties) this Agreement constitutes, and each Seller Document when so executed and delivered will constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of each Seller, enforceable against such Seller in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization of Agreement
Seller Documents
Section 4.3 . The Company owns all of the outstanding equity interests in the Subsidiary. Other than the Subsidiary and other than securities held in brokerage accounts for investment purposes, the Company does not own, directly or indirectly, any securities of, or other equity interests in, any Person. The Subsidiary is a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Minnesota and has all requisite limited liability company power and authority to own its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted. A complete and correct listing of the jurisdictions in which the Subsidiary is so qualified or licensed is set forth in . The Subsidiary has no assets or Liabilities other than the Permits sets forth on , is not a party to any Contract, does not have any operations or conduct any business and does not employ any individual.
Subsidiary
Schedule 4.3
Schedule 4.3
Section 4.4 .
Conflicts; Consents of Third Parties
(a) Except as set forth on , neither the execution and delivery by either Seller of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will materially conflict with, or result in any material violation of or material default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) or payment of any material amount under, or result in the acceleration of, require any consent, approval or notice under, create in any party the right to accelerate, terminate, modify or cancel, or result in the creation of any material Lien under (i) a Seller's or the Subsidiary's organizational documents; (ii) any Material Contract or Permit to which the Company or the Subsidiary is a party or by which any of their respective assets or properties are bound or any material Contract or Permit to which Paddock Properties is a party or by which any of its assets or properties are bound; (iii) any Order applicable to such Seller or the Subsidiary or any of the properties or assets of such Seller or the Subsidiary; or (iv) any applicable Law.
Schedule 4.4(a)
 
(b) No Permit or Order of, or declaration or filing with, or notification (each, a "") to any Governmental Body is required on the part of either Seller or the Subsidiary in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except (i) in connection with the Antitrust Laws and (ii) as set forth on .
Consent
Schedule 4.4(b)
Section 4.5 .
Real Property
(a) Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary owns in fee any real property. The Subsidiary does not lease any interest in real property. sets forth a true and complete list of all real property interests directly or indirectly leased by the Company from any third party pursuant to a lease, sublease, use and occupancy or other similar arrangement under which the Company is a lessee, (collectively, the "" and the leased premises specified in such leases, together with the Real Estate, being referred to herein collectively as the ""), including the address and lessee of such Company Leases. Correct and complete copies of all Company Leases have been made available to Purchaser. The Company Properties constitute all of the material interests in real property currently used or currently held for use in connection with the Business and that are necessary for the continued operation of the Business as currently conducted. With respect to each of the Company Leases, the Company has a legal, binding, valid and enforceable leasehold interest in, and enjoys quiet and undisturbed possession of, the leased premises specified in such Company Leases on the terms set forth therein. The Company is not in material breach of or material default under the terms of any Company Lease and, to the Knowledge of the Company, no event has occurred that, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute such a material breach or material default or permit termination under such Company Lease. To the Knowledge of the Company, no security deposit under any Company Lease has been used. All of the Company Properties are in good operating usable condition and repair in all material respects, subject to normal wear and tear, and are free from material defects and suitable for their respective intended purposes.
Schedule 4.5(a)
Company Leases
Company Properties
(b) sets forth a correct and complete list of all real property owned in fee by Paddock Properties being transferred to Purchaser pursuant to this Agreement, together with all buildings, structures and facilities thereon (collectively, the ""), including the address and legal description of such Real Estate. As of the Closing, Paddock Properties will have fee simple and valid title to the Real Estate, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Exceptions. Except as set forth in , Paddock Properties has not granted any purchase option or right of first refusal with respect to a sale of any of the Real Estate. Paddock Properties has the power and authority to sell, transfer, assign and deliver the Real Estate as provided in this Agreement, and such delivery will convey to Purchaser valid fee simple title to the Real Estate, free and clear of any and all Liens other than Permitted Exceptions. To the Knowledge of the Company, there are no condemnation proceedings pending or threatened that would result in the taking of the Real Estate.
Schedule 4.5(b)
Real Estate
Schedule 4.5(b)
 
Section 4.6 .
Intellectual Property
(a) sets forth a complete and correct list of all Registered Intellectual Property of the Company and the Subsidiary, and the jurisdiction, owner and, where applicable, the registration or application number of each application and registration. The foregoing applications and registrations are, to the Knowledge of the Company, valid and in full force and effect and subsisting, and all registration, maintenance and renewal fees applicable to the Registered Intellectual Property that are currently due have been paid and all documents and certificates related to such items have been filed with the relevant Governmental Body or other authorities in the applicable jurisdictions for the purposes of maintaining such items. The Company has good and valid title to the Registered Intellectual Property, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted Exceptions.
Schedule 4.6(a)
(b) Except for sales to its customers and licenses and sublicenses granted to its suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, collaborators, and development partners made in the Ordinary Course of Business, and except as set forth in , the Company and the Subsidiary do not license or sublicense, nor is either of them a party to any other Contract authorizing a third party to use, practice any rights under or grant sublicenses with respect to, any Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property.
Schedule 4.6(b)
(c) Except as set forth in :
Schedule 4.6(c)
(i) since January 1, 2008, there has been no Legal Proceeding alleging that any aspect of the conduct of the Business infringes or misappropriates any Intellectual Property of any third party pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened (A) against the Company or the Subsidiary or (B) with respect to which the Company or the Subsidiary has a financial interest in the outcome of such claim; and
(ii) (A) the Company has not received any written claim or written demand since January 1, 2008 that challenges the legality, validity, enforceability, or ownership of any Owned Intellectual Property; and (B) to the Knowledge of the Company, no Person has interfered with, infringed upon, misappropriated or otherwise come into conflict with any Owned Intellectual Property, and there is, and since January 1, 2008 there has been, no claim of any such infringement, misappropriation, or other conflict pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against any Person by the Company or the Subsidiary.
(d) The Company takes reasonable measures to protect and maintain the confidentiality of the Owned Intellectual Property.
Section 4.7 .
Litigation; Product Liability
(a) Except as set forth on , there is no Legal Proceeding pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or the Subsidiary or any of their properties or assets (or, to the Knowledge of the Company, any of their respective current or former officers, managers, directors or employees in their capacities as such), (i) that involves a claim for more than $100,000, (ii) that seeks any material injunctive relief, or (iii) with respect to which either the Company or the Subsidiary has or is reasonably likely to have an indemnification obligation. There is no Legal Proceeding pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened that is reasonably likely to prohibit, restrain or delay the ability of the Sellers to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. There are no Orders outstanding against the Company or the Subsidiary or any of their properties or assets. sets forth the paragraph IV Legal Proceedings that are pending against the Company or the Subsidiary as of date hereof, which Schedule shall be updated as of the Closing Date (the "").
Schedule 4.7(a)
Schedule 4.7(a)
Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings
 
(b) To the Knowledge of the Company, since January 1, 2008, there has not been any Legal Proceeding pending or threatened against the Company arising out of any personal injury and/or death proximately caused by the use of the Products.
Section 4.8 .
Compliance with Laws; Permits
(a) The Company and the Subsidiary are each in compliance in all material respects with all Laws applicable to them, their respective properties and assets and the conduct of the Business.
(b) sets forth a complete and correct list of all Permits, excluding Environmental Permits, held by the Company or the Subsidiary, which constitute all material Permits, other than Environmental Permits, that are required under all applicable Laws to own or lease and operate the properties and assets that each purports to own or lease and operate, to manufacture or market the Products and to conduct the Business as currently conducted. All Permits listed in are valid and in full force and effect and neither the Company nor the Subsidiary is in material default under or in material violation of (and, to the Knowledge of the Company, no event has occurred that, with notice or the lapse of time or both, would constitute a material default under or material violation of) any Permit listed in . There is no Legal Proceeding pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or the Subsidiary that, if determined adversely to the Company, would result in the revocation, cancellation, suspension or any other adverse modification of any Permit listed in .
Schedule 4.8(b)
Schedule 4.8(b)
Schedule 4.8(b)
Schedule 4.8(b)
(c) Except as set forth on , during the last three years the Company has not received, nor has it been subject to, any Form 483s, FDA warning letters, adverse inspection, compelled or voluntary recall, market withdrawal or replacement, post-sale warning, investigation, penalty for corrective or remedial action or corrective action plan, in each case relating to the Products or the Facility or any other facility in which the Products were manufactured or stored, by any Regulatory Authority.For each Product, the Company has made available to Purchaser a complete and correct Regulatory File and such Regulatory Files contain complete and correct copies of all adverse event reports relating to the Products for the period and to the extent that such adverse event reports are required by Law to be maintained.
Schedule 4.8(c)
(d) Except as set forth on , during the last three years the Company has been in compliance in all material respects with current good manufacturing practices as regulated or required by the Regulatory Authorities.
Schedule 4.8(d)
(e) During the last three years, except as set forth in the Regulatory Files made available to Purchaser or on , neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has received or been subject to any untitled letters or, to the Knowledge of the Company, oral communication or correspondence, in each case from the FDA (i) alleging that the Products, the Facility or the other facilities in which the Products are manufactured or stored are not or were not in compliance with all applicable Laws, clearances, Permits, exemptions, guidance or guidelines, or (ii) alleging that the Products, the Facility or the other facilities in which the Products are manufactured or stored are or were the subject of any pending, threatened or anticipated Legal Proceedings by a Regulatory Authority.
Schedule 4.8(e)
 
(f) Except as set forth on : (i) the Product Approvals are in full force and effect; (ii) there is no Legal Proceeding by any Governmental Body pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened seeking the recall of the Products or the revocation or suspension of any of the Product Approvals and (iii) the Company has not received written notice of any loss of or refusal to renew any Product Approval held by the Company or the Subsidiary. The Company has made available to Purchaser complete and correct copies of all the Product Approvals and Regulatory Applications.
Schedule 4.8(f)
(g) Neither the Company, nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any employee or agent of the Company has made an untrue statement of material fact or fraudulent statement to the FDA or any other Governmental Body with respect to any Product or failed to disclose a material fact required to be disclosed to any Governmental Body.
(h) None of the Company, the Subsidiary or any of their current employees, or former employees during the time of their employment with the Company, has been debarred or received written notice of action or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threat of any Legal Proceeding with respect to debarment under the provisions of 21 U.S.C.  335a, any other federal Law or any equivalent provision in any applicable jurisdiction.
Section 4.9 . Except as set forth on , the Company and the Subsidiary are and have been in compliance in all material respects with all Environmental Laws and Environmental Permits and, to the Knowledge of the Company, have no material Liability under any Environmental Law, other than obligations to comply with Environmental Laws currently in effect and Environmental Permits in the ordinary course of business. There is no Legal Proceeding pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company, the Subsidiary or any of the Company Properties relating to or arising under Environmental Laws or Environmental Permits, except the processing of notices or applications for renewal or amendment of Permits required by this Agreement in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has received any written notice of any actual or potential material Liability or material violation relating to or arising under any applicable Environmental Laws. sets forth a complete and correct list of all Environmental Permits held by the Company. Except as set forth in , each of the Company and the Subsidiary has obtained and holds all required Environmental Permits, and each such Environmental Permit is valid and in full force and effect. Except as disclosed in , no Releases of Hazardous Materials have occurred, no Hazardous Materials are present and, to the Knowledge of the Company, no Person has been exposed to Hazardous Materials in each case in, on, about or migrating to or from any Site, that in any such case, if such Release, presence or exposure were known, could reasonably be expected to result in a material Liability. Except as disclosed in , to the Knowledge of the Company, neither the Company nor any Subsidiary, any predecessors of the Company or the Subsidiary or any entity previously owned by the Company or the Subsidiary, has transported or arranged for the treatment, storage, handling, disposal, or transportation of any Hazardous Material to any off-Site location that has resulted or could result in a material Liability to the Company or the Subsidiary. Except as disclosed in , the Transferred Assets do not include any (i) polychlorinated biphenyl containing equipment, (ii) underground storage tanks, or (iii) asbestos containing material at the Company Properties. There are no Phase I or Phase II environmental, health and safety assessments, environmental, health and safety investigations, environmental, health and safety studies, environmental, health and safety audits, environmental, health and safety tests or other environmental, health and safety analyses conducted by or on behalf of the Company or the Subsidiary (or any advisors or representatives thereof) that are currently in the possession of the Company or the Subsidiary (or to the Knowledge of the Company any advisors or representatives thereof) with respect to any of the Company Properties or the Business that have not been made available to Purchaser. Except as set forth on , neither the execution of this Agreement nor consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will require any notification to or consent of any Governmental Body or the undertaking of any investigations or remedial actions pursuant to Environmental Laws. Except as set forth in , neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has expressly assumed responsibility for or agreed to indemnify or hold harmless any Person for any Liability arising under or relating to Environmental Laws, except pursuant to ordinary course commercial agreements that provide for indemnities for such matters and except for those Contracts listed on . This Section 4.9 and Sections 4.4, 4.10, 4.11, 4.15, 4.18, 4.22 and 4.24 represent the sole and exclusive representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement regarding Environmental Laws and Environmental Permits.
Environmental Matters
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.9
Schedule 4.15
 
Section 4.10 .
Financial Statements
(a) The Company has made available to Purchaser correct and complete copies of the audited consolidated balance sheets of the Company and the Subsidiary as at September 30, 2010, March 31, 2010, September 30, 2009 and September 30, 2008 and the related audited consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Company and the Subsidiary for the periods then ended (such audited statements, including the related notes and schedules thereto, are referred to herein as the ""). Each of the Financial Statements has been prepared in accordance with GAAP throughout the periods presented and presents fairly in all material respects the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as at the dates and for the periods indicated. For purposes of this Agreement, the audited balance sheet of the Company as at September 30, 2010 is referred to as the "" and September 30, 2010 is referred to as the "".
Financial Statements
Balance Sheet
Balance Sheet Date
(b) Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has any liability of a nature that would be required to be reflected or reserved against on, or disclosed in the notes to, a balance sheet of the Business prepared in accordance with GAAP, except for (i) liabilities reflected in or reserved against in the Balance Sheet or disclosed in the notes thereto; (ii) liabilities incurred in the Ordinary Course of Business since the Balance Sheet Date; (iii) liabilities to the extent taken into account in the calculation of Final Working Capital; and (iv) liabilities set forth on Schedule 4.10(b). For purposes of this Section 4.10(b), "liabilities" means any and all debts, liabilities, obligations, deficiencies, penalties, assessments, fines, claims, causes of action or other losses, fees, costs or expenses, whether accrued or fixed, known or unknown, absolute or contingent, matured or unmatured, due or to become due and whether arising under any Order, Contract or otherwise.
 
(c) Except as set forth on , (i) neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has any Indebtedness and (ii) Paddock Properties does not have any Indebtedness in respect of those Transferred Assets being sold by it hereunder.
Schedule 4.10(c)
Section 4.11 . Except as set forth on and except as required or specifically contemplated by this Agreement, from the Balance Sheet Date through the date of this Agreement, (a) the Company has conducted the Business in all material respects in the Ordinary Course of Business, (b) there has not occurred a change, effect, circumstance or event that, individually or in the aggregate, has caused a Material Adverse Effect and (c) neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has taken or failed to take any action that, if taken or failed to be taken after the date of this Agreement, would constitute a breach of Section 6.2.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
Schedule 4.11
Section 4.12 .
Taxes
(a) The Company, Paddock Properties and the Subsidiary have timely filed all material federal, state and foreign Tax Returns required to be filed by them and each such Tax Return correctly and completely reflects material liabilities for Taxes and all other information required to be reported thereon. All material Taxes owed by the Company, Paddock Properties and the Subsidiary (whether or not shown on any Tax Return) have been timely paid (or, if due between the date hereof and the Closing Date, will be duly and timely paid). The Company, Paddock Properties and the Subsidiary have adequately provided for, in their books of account and related records, Liabilities for all unpaid Taxes (that are current Taxes not yet due and payable or being contested in good faith).
(b) Except as set forth in , there is no audit currently pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against, or with respect to, the Company, Paddock Properties or the Subsidiary in respect of any Taxes. Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary is the beneficiary of any extension of time within which to file any Tax Return, nor has the Company or the Subsidiary made (or had made on their behalf) any requests for such extensions. Except as set forth on , no claim has ever been made by an authority in a jurisdiction the Company or the Subsidiary does not file Tax Returns that either of them is or may be subject to taxation by that jurisdiction or that either of them must file Tax Returns in such jurisdiction. There are no Liens on any of the stock, assets or properties of the Company, the Subsidiary or with respect to Taxes.
Schedule 4.12(b)
Schedule 4.12(b)
(c) The Company and the Subsidiary have withheld and timely paid all material Taxes required to have been withheld or paid by them (including any estimated or withholding Taxes owed on behalf of the shareholders of the Company with respect to the income of the Company or the Subsidiary) and have complied with all information reporting and backup withholding requirements.
 
(d) (i) lists all federal, state, local, and foreign income Tax Returns filed with respect to the Company and the Subsidiary for taxable periods ended on or after January 1, 2007 (ii) indicates those Tax Returns that have been audited and (iii) indicates those Tax Returns that currently are the subject of audit. The Company has made available to Purchaser correct and complete copies of all federal income Tax Returns, examination reports, and statements of deficiencies assessed against or agreed to by the Company since January 1, 2007. Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has waived (or is subject to a waiver of) any statute of limitations in respect of Taxes or has agreed to (or is subject to) any extension of time with respect to a Tax assessment or deficiency.
Schedule 4.12(d)
(e) The Company has not been the "distributing corporation" (within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code) with respect to a transaction described in Section 355 of the Code within the five-year period ending as of the date of this Agreement.
(f) Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary is a party to, a beneficiary of or subject to, any Tax allocation or sharing agreement. Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has any Liabilities for the Taxes of any Person (i) as a transferee or successor, (ii) by Contract, or (iii) under Section 1.1502-6 of the Treasury regulations (or any similar provision of state or local Law).
(g) At all times since its formation, the Subsidiary has been a "disregarded entity" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company has been an "S corporation" for U.S. federal income tax purposes for all taxable years beginning on or after October 1, 1984.
Section 4.13 . Each of the Company, Paddock Properties and the Subsidiary has valid title to, a valid leasehold interest in, or a valid license to use all of the Transferred Assets used by such Person, free and clear of any Liens other than Permitted Exceptions. The material Transferred Assets (other than inventory for sale) are in good operating condition, subject to ordinary wear and tear, and are fit for use in the Ordinary Course of Business. Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary is engaged in any business or operations other than the Business. The Transferred Assets constitute all of the material assets and rights necessary to conduct the Business immediately following the Closing in substantially the same manner as the Business is being conducted on the date of this Agreement (except for accounts receivable collected, prepaid expenses realized and Contracts fully performed or expired in the Ordinary Course of Business between the date of this Agreement and the Closing Date).
Title to Property; Condition of Assets
Section 4.14 . sets forth a correct and complete list of (a) all of the products manufactured, distributed, sold or marketed by the Company and (b) all of the products that have been selected and approved by the Company's Product Selection Committee, in each case, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date (collectively, the "").
Products
Schedule 4.14
Products
Section 4.15 .
Material Contracts
(a) sets forth a complete and correct list of each of the following types of Contracts to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound and that have not been fully performed or have not otherwise expired or been terminated (collectively, the ""):
Schedule 4.15(a)
Material Contracts
(i) Contracts that involve aggregate annual payments by or to the Company of more than $250,000 (other than purchase orders entered into in the Ordinary Course of Business and other than employment Contracts disclosed on Schedule 4.16(a));
 
(ii) Contracts that relate to or evidence Indebtedness or pursuant to which a Lien has been placed on any material asset or property of the Company;
(iii) Contracts that contain any (A) covenant limiting, in any material respect, the ability of the Company to engage in any line of business or compete with any Person or (B) obligation on the part of the Company to indemnify any Person or (C) guaranty by the Company of the obligations of any other Person;
(iv) Contracts that create or relate to a partnership or joint venture to which the Company is a party, or pursuant to which the Company has any ownership interest in any other Person;
(v) Contracts for (A) the disposition of the capital stock of a Seller or the Subsidiary or the disposition of any material Transferred Asset (other than inventory disposed of in the Ordinary Course of Business), (B) the acquisition of any capital stock or other equity interest in, or material assets or business of, any other Person, in each case, other than in the Ordinary Course of Business, or (C) any merger, recapitalization, redemption, reorganization or other similar Contract;
(vi) Contracts relating to the employment or compensation of any employee of the Company (other than Company Benefit Plans that are disclosed on ) that are not terminable at-will without liability to the Company;
Schedule 4.16(a)
(vii) Contracts under which the Company has, directly or indirectly, made any advance, loan or extension of credit to any Person;
(viii) Contracts for capital expenditures or the acquisition or construction of fixed assets for the benefit and use of the Company or the Subsidiary, the performance of which involves consideration in excess of $150,000 annually or $300,000 in the aggregate;
(ix) any Contract concerning Licensed Intellectual Property involving consideration in excess of $100,000 per year;
(x) Contracts for the purchase or sale of real property;
(xi) any Contract between the Company and any Affiliate of the Company;
(xii) any Contract with a Governmental Body; and
 
(xiii) any commitment to enter into any agreement of the type described in subsections (i) through (xii) of this Section 4.15.
(b) The Company has made available to Purchaser true and complete copies of all of the Material Contracts. Except as set forth on , all of the Material Contracts are in full force and effect and are the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company and, to the Knowledge of the Company, the other parties thereto, enforceable against the Company and, to the Knowledge of the Company, the other parties thereto in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity). Except as set forth on , neither the Company nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any counterparty (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) is in breach or default in any material respect under any Material Contract.
Schedule 4.15(b)
Schedule 4.15(b)
Section 4.16 .
Employee Benefits
(a) lists each material "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) (which, for the avoidance of doubt, includes all material "employee benefit plans" that Purchaser will be assuming in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement) and any other material written or oral employee compensation plan, practice or policy of any kind, benefit plan, bonus or incentive plan, employment agreement, pension plan, profit sharing, retirement plan, severance plan, health and welfare plan, life insurance plan, workers' compensation or other insurance plan, disability plan, deferred compensation plan, equity incentive plan, change-in-control plan, fringe benefit plan, paid time off plan, or other arrangements, whether or not subject to ERISA, that provide for pay or benefits of any kind to Business Employees and that are existing on the Closing Date or prior thereto, which are or have been established, maintained, sponsored or contributed to by the Company or its ERISA Affiliates (or any of their predecessors) or for which the Company or its ERISA Affiliates may have current or future material liabilities (each, a ""). The Company has made available to Purchaser correct and complete copies of (i) each Company Benefit Plan (as amended) (or, in the case of any such Company Benefit Plan that is unwritten, descriptions thereof), (ii) the most recent annual reports on Form 5500 required to be filed with the IRS with respect to each Company Benefit Plan (if any such report was required), (iii) the most recent summary plan description for each Company Benefit Plan for which such summary plan description is required, (iv) each trust agreement and insurance or group annuity contract relating to any Company Benefit Plan (as amended), and (v) the most recent determination, advisory and/or opinion letter, as applicable from the IRS covering each Company Benefit Plan. Each Company Benefit Plan maintained, contributed to or required to be contributed to by the Company has been administered in all material respects in accordance with its terms. The Company Benefit Plans are all in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and all other applicable Laws.
Schedule 4.16(a)
Company Benefit Plan
 
(b) All Company Benefit Plans that are "employee pension plans" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) that are intended to be tax qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code (each, a "") that are maintained, contributed to or required to be contributed to by the Company have at all times since their adoption been so qualified, and each trust that forms a part of any such Company Pension Plan has at all times since its adoption been tax-exempt under Section 501(a) of the Code and, to the Knowledge of the Company, no event has occurred or circumstance exists relating to any such Company Pension Plan that would adversely affect the qualification of such Company Pension Plan or could reasonably be expected to give rise to disqualification or loss of tax-exempt status of any such plan or trust.
Company Pension Plan
(c) Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliates has maintained, established, sponsored, participated in, or contributed to, any (i) plan which is subject to Part 3 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA, Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code; (ii) multiemployer plan (as defined in Sections 3(37) and 4001(a)(3) of ERISA); or (iii) multiple employer plan or to any plan described in Section 413 of the Code. Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary, or any ERISA Affiliate thereof has incurred any material liability for any Tax imposed under Chapter 43 of the Code or civil liability under Section 502(i) or (l) of ERISA.
(d) No Company Benefit Plan provides health or death benefit coverage beyond the termination of an employee's employment, except as required by Part 6 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA or Section 4980B of the Code or any state Laws requiring continuation of benefits coverage following termination of employment.
(e) Except as set forth on Schedule 4.16(e), no Legal Proceeding (excluding claims for benefits incurred in the ordinary course of plan activities) is pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against, or with respect to, any Company Benefit Plan.
(f) All material contributions to Company Benefit Plans that were required to be made under such Company Benefit Plans have been made, and all material benefits accrued under any unfunded Company Benefit Plan have been paid, accrued or otherwise adequately reserved in accordance with GAAP, all of which accruals under unfunded Company Benefit Plans are as disclosed under the heading "Unfunded Company Plan Accruals" on .
Schedule 4.16(f)
(g) Except as set forth on the execution, delivery of, and performance by the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (either alone or upon the occurrence of any additional or subsequent event) will not (i) result in any payment (whether of severance pay or otherwise), acceleration, forgiveness of indebtedness, vesting, distribution, increase in benefits or obligation to fund benefits with respect to any current, former or retired employees, officers, consultants, independent contractors, agents or directors of the Company or the Subsidiary or (ii) result in the triggering or imposition of any restrictions or limitations on the right of the Company to amend or terminate any Company Benefit Plan.
Schedule 4.16(g)
(h) Each individual that renders services to the Company who is classified by the Company as having the status of (i) an independent contractor or other non-employee status, or (ii) an exempt or non-exempt employee, is, to the Knowledge of the Company, properly so classified for all purposes, including (A) taxation and tax reporting, (B) eligibility to participate in the Company Benefit Plans, (C) Fair Labor Standards Act purposes and (D) applicable Laws governing the payment of wages.
 
(i) Each Company Benefit Plan that is a "nonqualified deferred compensation plan" (as defined under Section 409A(d)(1) of the Code) is in material compliance with Section 409A of the Code. Any amounts paid or payable pursuant to each Company Benefit Plan subject to Section 409A of the Code is not includible in the gross income of a service provider (within the meaning of Section 409A) until received by the service provider and is not subject to interest or the additional tax imposed by Section 409A of the Code, and there are no agreements in place that would entitle a participant in any such plan to reimbursement for any such additional Tax.
(j) Except as set forth on Schedule 4.16(j), with respect to each Company Benefit Plan that is funded mostly or partially through an insurance policy, neither the Company nor any of its ERISA Affiliates has any Liability in the nature of retroactive rate adjustment, loss sharing arrangement or other actual or contingent liability arising wholly or partially out of events occurring on or prior to the Closing Date.
Section 4.17 . sets forth a true and complete list of the employee number, title or position and annual salary or wage rate for each employee of the Company as of the date hereof. There is no collective bargaining or other labor union Contract to which the Company is a party or by which the Company is bound. Since the Balance Sheet Date, the Company has not encountered any labor union organizing activity or had any actual or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened labor strikes, work stoppages, disputes, slowdowns or lockouts. Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary has effectuated, nor are they in the process of effectuating, a "plant closing" (as defined in the Workers' Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as amended (the "")) or a "mass lay-off" (as defined in the WARN Act), or any similar action under any similar Law of an applicable jurisdiction.
Labor and Employment Matters
Schedule 4.17
WARN Act
Section 4.18 . Other than any employment or compensation Contract with directors, officers and employees entered into in the Ordinary Course of Business, and other than the lease covering the Real Estate, (a) the Company is not a party to any Contract with any Seller or any Affiliate of any Seller, or any officer, director or manager of the Company or the Subsidiary, and (b) no material transaction has taken place between the Company on the one hand, and any Seller or any Affiliate of any Seller or any officer, or director or manager of the Company or the Subsidiary, on the other hand, that has not been discharged or terminated with no further obligation on the part of the Company.
Related Party Transactions
Section 4.19 . sets forth a list of the 10 largest customers and the 10 largest suppliers of the Company, as measured by the dollar amount of purchases therefrom or thereby, during each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2009, showing the approximate total sales by the Company to each such customer and the approximate total purchases by the Company from each such supplier during such periods. Since the Balance Sheet Date, no such supplier or customer has canceled in writing or otherwise terminated in writing, or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened to cancel or otherwise terminate, its relationship with the Company or the Subsidiary.
Customers and Suppliers
Schedule 4.19
Section 4.20 . Except as set forth on (whose fees and expenses shall be paid by the Company), no agent, broker, investment banker, financial advisor, intermediary, finder or similar firm acting on behalf of any Seller is or will be entitled to any broker's or finder's fee or any other commission or similar fee, directly or indirectly, from any Seller in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Brokers
Schedule 4.20
 
Section 4.21 . Neither the Company nor the Subsidiary, nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any director, manager, officer, employee or agent of or other Person associated with or acting on behalf of the Company or the Subsidiary has, directly or indirectly, (a) violated any provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended or (b) used any Company or Subsidiary funds for (i) any unlawful contributions, gifts, entertainment or other unlawful expenses relating to political activity, (ii) any unlawful payment to foreign or domestic government officials or employees or to foreign or domestic political parties or campaigns, (iii) any bribe, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other similar unlawful payment.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
Section 4.22 . The finished goods inventory of Products held by the Company is of a condition useable and saleable in the Ordinary Course of Business, subject to the applicable allowances contained in the Financial Statements. The quantities of each item of inventory (including raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods) are not excessive and are reasonable in the present circumstances of the Company. No such inventory has been pledged as collateral or is held on a consignment basis.
Inventory
Section 4.23 . No Product is subject to any guaranty, warranty or other indemnity, other than guaranties, warranties and indemnities set forth in Material Contracts relating to the Products.
Warranties
Section 4.24 . sets forth a complete and correct list of all policies of insurance maintained by the Company relating to the Business and its properties, assets or employees, including the type of coverage, the insurer, the policy limit and the expiration date of such policies. There are no material disputes between the Company and any underwriters of any such policies, and there is no material claim pending under any such policy as to which coverage has been denied or disputed. All such policies are in full force and effect, all premiums that are due and payable under all such policies have been timely paid, and the Company is otherwise in full compliance with the terms of such policies. No written notice of cancellation of any such policies has been received by Company. Except as set forth in and except for claims made under workers' compensation insurance policies, the Company has made no claims under any casualty insurance policy during the past five years.
Insurance
Schedule 4.24(a)
Schedule 4.24(b)
Section 4.25 . EXCEPT FOR ANY REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN THIS ARTICLE IV AND IN ANY CERTIFICATE DELIVERED PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS ARE SOLD "AS IS, WHERE IS" AND THE SELLERS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND OR NATURE, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE TITLE, CONDITION, VALUE OR QUALITY OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS OR THE LIABILITIES, OPERATIONS, PROSPECTS (FINANCIAL AND OTHERWISE), RISKS AND OTHER INCIDENTS OF OWNERSHIP OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS AND THE BUSINESS. EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS ARTICLE IV OR IN ANY CERTIFICATE DELIVERED PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT, NO MATERIAL OR INFORMATION PROVIDED BY OR COMMUNICATIONS MADE BY THE SELLERS OR ANY BROKER OR INVESTMENT BANKER, INCLUDING INFORMATION PROVIDED DURING DUE DILIGENCE AND ANY ORAL, WRITTEN OR ELECTRONIC RESPONSE TO ANY INFORMATION REQUEST PROVIDED TO PURCHASER, WILL CAUSE OR CREATE ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE TITLE, CONDITION, VALUE OR QUALITY OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS OR THE LIABILITIES, OPERATIONS, PROSPECTS (FINANCIAL AND OTHERWISE), RISKS AND OTHER INCIDENTS OF OWNERSHIP OF THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS OR THE BUSINESS THAT IS NOT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH HEREIN.
Sole Representations and Warranties
 
Section 5.1 . Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Michigan and has all requisite corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted.
Organization and Good Standing
Section 5.2 . Purchaser has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and each other agreement, document, instrument or certificate contemplated by this Agreement or to be executed by Purchaser in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby (the ""), and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. The execution, delivery and performance by Purchaser of this Agreement and each Purchaser Document have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on behalf of Purchaser. This Agreement has been, and each Purchaser Document will be at or prior to the Closing, duly executed and delivered by Purchaser and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other Parties) this Agreement constitutes, and each Purchaser Document when so executed and delivered will constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of Purchaser, enforceable against Purchaser in accordance with their respective terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws affecting creditors' rights and remedies generally, and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization of Agreement
Purchaser Documents
Section 5.3 .
Conflicts; Consents of Third Parties
(a) Neither the execution and delivery by Purchaser of this Agreement and the Purchaser Documents nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby will conflict in any material respect with, or result in any material violation of or material default (with or without notice or lapse of time, or both) under (i) the organizational documents of Purchaser; (ii) any Contract or Permit to which Purchaser is a party; (iii) any Order applicable to Purchaser as of the date hereof; or (iv) any applicable Law, other than in the case of clauses (i)-(iv) above, any conflict, violation or default that would not have and would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the ability of Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Purchaser Documents.
 
(b) No Consent is required on the part of Purchaser in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Purchaser Documents, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except in connection with the Antitrust Laws.
Section 5.4 . There are no Legal Proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of Purchaser, threatened that are reasonably likely to prohibit, restrain or delay the ability of Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
Litigation
Section 5.5 . No Person has acted, directly or indirectly, as a broker, finder, investment advisor, financial advisor or similar professional for Purchaser in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and no person is entitled to any fee or commission or like payment in respect thereof.
Brokers
Section 5.6 . Purchaser has, or will have at Closing, sufficient cash available to enable Purchaser to pay when due the full cash consideration payable by Purchaser pursuant to Article III. Purchaser has no reason to believe that such cash will not be available at the Closing. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, its obligation to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby is not subject to any financing contingency or condition.
Availability of Funds
Section 5.7 . The representations and warranties of the Sellers contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement are the only representations and warranties made by the Sellers in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and supersede any and all previous written and oral statements made in respect of the Sellers, the Subsidiary, the Transferred Assets or the Business. There are no representations or warranties of the Sellers regarding the Company, the Subsidiary, the Transferred Assets or the Business other than those set forth in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement. EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT AND EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED HEREIN, PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE TRANSFERRED ASSETS ARE BEING ACQUIRED "AS IS, WHERE IS" ON THE CLOSING DATE AND IN THEIR RESPECTIVE CONDITION ON THE CLOSING DATE.
"As Is, Where Is" Representations
Section 6.1 . Subject to applicable privileges and the Confidentiality Agreement, and subject to any prohibition against disclosure under the Antitrust Laws or any other applicable Law, the Sellers agree that, prior to the Closing Date, Purchaser shall be permitted, through its officers, employees and representatives (including its legal advisors and accountants) and upon reasonable advance written notice to either Seller, to make such reasonable investigation of the Transferred Assets as it reasonably requests and to make extracts and copies of related books and records; , , that the foregoing shall not include any environmental testing without the consent of the Sellers or access to any information that is of a competitively sensitive nature or that relates solely to the sale of the Transferred Assets by the Sellers. Any such investigation and examination shall be conducted during regular business hours, without material disruption to the Business, and under reasonable circumstances, and the Sellers shall cooperate fully therein. In order that Purchaser may have the opportunity to make such physical, business, accounting and legal review, examination or investigation as it may reasonably request, the Sellers shall cause the officers, employees, consultants, agents, accountants, attorneys and other representatives of the Company and Paddock Properties to reasonably cooperate with Purchaser and its representatives in connection with such review and examination.
Access to Information
provided
however
 
Section 6.2 . The Sellers agree that, during the period from the date of this Agreement until the earlier of the Closing or the termination of this Agreement pursuant to its terms, except as (a) set forth on , (b) may be authorized by written consent of Purchaser (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), or (c) may otherwise be contemplated by this Agreement, the Sellers shall (i) conduct the Business only in the Ordinary Course of Business, (ii) comply in all material respects with applicable Laws and (iii) use their commercially reasonable efforts to (A) preserve the material Transferred Assets (subject to any dispositions of inventory, collection of accounts receivable, realization of prepaid expenses and full performance or other expiration of Contracts, in each case, in the Ordinary Course of Business), (B) maintain their existing relations and goodwill with customers, suppliers, distributors and others having business dealings with the Company and (C) keep available the services of the Key Employees. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and as an extension thereof, the Company and, solely with respect to the following clauses (g), (i) and (r), Paddock Properties shall not, and shall not permit the Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, do, agree or commit to do, or authorize any of the following:
Conduct of the Business Pending the Closing
Schedule 6.2
(a) authorize, adopt or effect any change in its articles of incorporation, by-laws, limited liability company agreement or other organizational documents;
(b) make any change in its authorized or issued capital stock or other equity interests or, directly or indirectly, acquire, redeem, issue, deliver, encumber, sell or otherwise dispose of any of its capital stock or other equity interests or securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, any of its capital stock or other equity interests or authorize any such action;
(c) split, combine or reclassify any of its capital stock or other equity interests or issue any other security in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of its capital stock or other equity interests;
(d) declare, set aside, make or pay any dividend or other distribution payable in property or other in kind consideration, in respect of its capital stock or other equity interests;
(e) issue any note, bond, or other debt security or create, incur, assume, or guarantee any Liabilities, other than Liabilities under Material Contracts in existence as of the date of this Agreement;
(f) make any loans, advances or capital contributions to, or investments in, any Person, other than any loans or advances that will be repaid prior to or at the Closing;
 
(g) sell, transfer, lease, license, pledge or encumber or otherwise dispose of any material Transferred Asset (including by merger, consolidation, asset sale, formation of a joint venture or other business combination), except (i) pursuant to Contracts in existence as of the date of this Agreement or (ii) sales of inventory in the Ordinary Course of Business;
(h) adversely modify or amend or affirmatively terminate, or waive, release or assign any rights or claims under, any Material Contract, except (i) as may be required by Law or by such Material Contract, (ii) in the Ordinary Course of Business or (iii) any Material Contract that is an Excluded Asset; or enter into any other Contract that, if existing on the date of this Agreement, would be a Material Contract, other than Contracts with customers that generate revenues for the Business and other than Contracts that are Excluded Assets;
(i) demolish or materially alter the Facility or any real property that is the subject of a Company Lease;
(j) cancel, compromise or settle any material claim, or waive or release any material rights of the Company or the Subsidiary;
(k) except as required to maintain qualification pursuant to the Code or as required by Law or by the terms of any Company Benefit Plan, adopt, enter into, amend, alter or terminate any Company Benefit Plan (including any award issued thereunder), fund or in any other way secure any payment of compensation or benefits under any Contract or Company Benefit Plan, or exercise any discretion to accelerate the vesting or payment of any compensation or benefit under any Contract or Company Benefit Plan;
(l) grant or agree to grant any increase in the wages, salary, bonus opportunities or other compensation, remuneration or benefits (including severance or termination pay) of any employee, officer, consultant, independent contractor, manager or director of the Company, other than (a) pursuant to Material Contracts in existence as of the date of this Agreement or (b) pursuant to the existing terms of a Company Benefit Plan; or take any action that would constitute a "mass lay-off," a "mass termination," or a "plant closing," or that would otherwise trigger notice requirements under any applicable Law concerning reductions in force, such as the WARN Act or any similar Law in any applicable jurisdiction;
(m) acquire (by merger, consolidation, formation of a joint venture, acquisition of stock or assets or other business combination) any corporation, partnership or other business organization or division thereof, all or substantially all of the assets of a business or business unit, or a collection of any material portion of the assets of any Person, or merge or consolidate with any Person;
(n) make any material change in any method of accounting or accounting practice policy, other than as required by applicable Law or by a change in GAAP;
(o) make or change any material Tax election, change in any material respect its method of Tax accounting or settle any material claim relating to Taxes;
 
(p) make, or commit to make, capital expenditures that, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000,000, other than pursuant to Material Contracts in existence as of the date of this Agreement;
(q) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation, dissolution, restructuring, recapitalization or other reorganization of the Company or the Subsidiary, or enter into a letter of intent or agreement in principle with respect thereto, other than pursuant to Material Contracts in existence as of the date of this Agreement;
(r) take or fail to take any action that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect or constitute a willful breach of any representation or warranty of the Sellers made herein; or
(s) authorize, agree or otherwise commit to take any of the actions prohibited by the foregoing clauses (a) through (r).
Section 6.3 .
Consents
(a) The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts, and Purchaser shall cooperate in such efforts, to obtain at the earliest practicable date the third party consents, approvals and notices set forth on and the Consents set forth on ; , , that in no event shall the Company be required to pay any consideration or incur any obligation in order to obtain such consents and approvals, unless Purchaser shall have agreed in writing to reimburse the Company for such consideration or obligation.
Schedule 4.4(a)
Schedule 4.4(b)
provided
however
(b) To the extent that (i) any Transferred Asset requires the consent of a third Person to assign or transfer such Transferred Asset to Purchaser and such consent has not been obtained on or prior to the Closing Date or (ii) any Transferred Asset is not, by its terms or under applicable Law, assignable and transferable to Purchaser (in either case, a ""), this Agreement shall not constitute an assignment or transfer or attempted assignment or transfer thereof, unless and until, in the case of assignments requiring consent, such consent shall have been obtained. The Company shall hold or cause to be held each such Non-Assignable Asset, from and after the Closing Date, in trust for the benefit of Purchaser and the covenants and obligations thereunder shall be performed by Purchaser in the name of the Company, and all benefits and obligations existing thereunder shall be for the account of Purchaser. With respect to any Non-Assignable Asset as to which the necessary consent for the assignment or transfer to Purchaser is obtained following the Closing, the Company, as soon as reasonably practicable following receipt of such consent, shall transfer such Non-Assignable Asset to Purchaser by execution and delivery of an instrument of conveyance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser. With respect to any Permit that cannot be assigned or transferred to Purchaser at Closing or obtained by Purchaser after Closing, the Company agrees to file such applications, notices, certifications, reports or other information as shall be necessary to convey the benefits of each such Permit to Purchaser from and after the Closing, or as soon as reasonably practicable after the Closing Date if such conveyance cannot by Law by accomplished as of Closing.
Non-Assignable Asset
 
Section 6.4 .
Filings with Governmental Bodies
(a) Each of Purchaser and the Company shall (i) make or cause to be made all filings required of each of them or any of their respective Affiliates under the Antitrust Laws or pursuant to Title XI of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby as promptly as practicable (but in any event prior to any applicable legal deadline), (ii) comply at the earliest practicable date with any request received by each of them or any of their respective Affiliates from the FTC or any other Governmental Body under the Antitrust Laws for additional information, documents, or other materials in respect of such filings or such transactions, and (iii) cooperate with each other in connection with any such filing (including, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, providing copies, or portions thereof, of all such documents to the non-filing parties prior to filing and considering all reasonable additions, deletions or changes suggested in connection therewith) and in connection with resolving any investigation or other inquiry of the FTC or other Governmental Body under any Antitrust Laws with respect to any such filing or any such transaction. Each Party shall use commercially best efforts to furnish to each other Party all information required for any application or other filing to be made pursuant to any applicable Law in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Each Party shall promptly inform the other Parties of any oral communication with, and provide copies of written communications with, any Governmental Body regarding any such filings or any such transaction. No Party shall independently participate in any formal meeting or communication with any Governmental Body in respect of any such filings, investigation or other inquiry without giving the other Parties prior notice of the meeting or such communication and, to the extent permitted by such Governmental Body, the opportunity to attend and/or participate in such meeting or communication. Subject to applicable Law, the Parties will consult and cooperate with one another in connection with any analyses, appearances, presentations, memoranda, briefs, arguments, opinions and proposals made or submitted by or on behalf of any Party relating to proceedings under the Antitrust Laws. For the avoidance of doubt, the Company shall not communicate with the FTC or any other Governmental Body with respect to any structural or conduct relief. The Company and Purchaser may, as each deems advisable and necessary, reasonably designate any competitively sensitive material provided to the other under this Section 6.4(a) as "outside counsel only." Such materials and the information contained therein shall be given only to the recipient's outside legal counsel and outside experts retained for purposes of any investigation or inquiry and will not be disclosed by such outside counsel or outside expert to employees, officers, or directors of the recipient, unless express written permission is obtained in advance from the source of the materials (the Company or Purchaser, as the case may be).
 
(b) Each of Purchaser and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to resolve such objections, if any, as may be asserted by any Governmental Body with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement under any Antitrust Law. Each of the Company and Purchaser shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take all such actions as may be required to cause the expiration of the notice periods under the Antitrust Laws with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as promptly as possible after the execution of this Agreement, including taking promptly any and all steps necessary to avoid or eliminate each and every impediment under any Antitrust Laws that may be asserted by any Federal, state and local and non-United States antitrust or competition authority, so as to enable the parties to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as expeditiously as possible, including committing to or effecting, by consent decree, hold separate orders, trust or otherwise the sale or disposition of such of its assets or businesses as are required to be divested in order to avoid the entry of, or to effect the dissolution of, any decree, order, judgment, injunction, temporary restraining order or other order in any Legal Proceeding that would otherwise have the effect of preventing or materially delaying the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , , that Purchaser agrees to divest (i) its assets or the assets of the Company that generated up to $6,600,000 in gross revenue in calendar year 2009 (provided, that if divestiture is required, as between a Purchaser asset and a Company asset, Purchaser shall divest the asset that generated lower gross revenues for the calendar year 2009)and (ii) pipeline products of Purchaser or the Company; and , , , that Purchaser shall have no duty to litigate against any Person in connection with Antitrust Laws. Purchaser shall pay all filing fees in connection with the Antitrust Laws; all other expenses will be paid by the Party incurring such expenses.
provided
however
provided
further
however
Section 6.5 . Each of the Sellers, on the one hand, and Purchaser, on the other hand, shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to (a) cause the fulfillment at the earliest practicable date of all of the conditions to the other Party's obligations to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as set forth in Article VII and (b) consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as promptly as practicable.
Other Actions
Section 6.6 . None of the Sellers, Purchaser or any of their respective Affiliates shall issue any press release or public announcement concerning this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby without obtaining the prior written approval (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of Purchaser, with respect to the Sellers and their Affiliates, or the Company, with respect to Purchaser and its Affiliates, unless, in the sole judgment of the Party issuing such release, disclosure is otherwise required by applicable Law, any Contract to which such Party is subject or by the applicable rules of any stock exchange on which such Party lists securities, provided that, to the extent required by applicable Law, the Party intending to issue such release shall, prior to such release, allow the Company or Purchaser, as applicable, reasonable time to comment on such release or announcement in advance of such issuance with respect to the text thereof.
Publicity
Section 6.7 . On the Closing Date, the Company shall (a) assign to Purchaser all rights to the names "Paddock Laboratories, Inc." and "Paddock Labs" and (b) file documentation with the Secretaries of State of the applicable jurisdictions necessary to change its legal name and, from and after the Closing, the Company shall not, and shall not cause or permit any Affiliate to, use the names "Paddock Laboratories, Inc." or "Paddock Labs", or any variation or simulation thereof, in any business involving the Products or in any related business. Subject to Section 6.8 and the Non-Compete Agreement, in the event that Purchaser or its Affiliates do not, for any consecutive eighteen-month period after the Closing, make active and bona fide commercial use of the name "Paddock", Purchaser, on behalf of itself and its Affiliates shall, upon the Company's or any of its shareholders' written request and, subject to the execution and delivery by Purchaser and the Company or any of its shareholders of a customary transfer and indemnification agreement, irrevocably assign and transfer all of their right, title and interest in and to the name "Paddock" to the Company or any of its shareholders and thereafter the Company or any of its shareholders may use such names in the conduct of any business.
Use of Name
 
Section 6.8 .
Agreement Not to Compete or Solicit
(a) The Company agrees that it shall not, and it shall cause each of its Affiliates (which, solely for purposes of this Section 6.8, shall exclude Bruce Paddock) not to, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate or otherwise engage in any business (a "") that competes with (i) the Products during the period commencing on the Closing Date and expiring on the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date (the ""), and (ii) the Business during the period commencing on the Closing Date and expiring on the second anniversary of the Closing Date; , , that it shall not be a violation of this Section 6.8(a) for the Company or any of its Affiliates to (w) beneficially and passively own any stock (or other equity interest convertible into stock) of any corporation listed on a national securities exchange that invests in, manages or operates a Competing Business, in each case, provided that such stock (or stock obtained upon conversion of such other equity interests) represents less than five percent of the outstanding capital stock of such Person, (x) acquire (and thereafter continue to own) all or a majority of the stock or assets of any Person that derived less than five percent of its annual consolidated revenues from a Competing Business during the calendar year immediately preceding the consummation of such acquisition, (y) develop, manufacture or sell active pharmaceutical ingredients primarily intended for incorporation into finished dose non-human pharmaceutical products, or (z) consummate any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and comply with the terms of this Agreement.
Competing Business
Restricted Period
provided
however
(b) During the Restricted Period, the Company agrees that it shall not, and it shall cause each of its Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, solicit, influence, entice or encourage any Continuing Employee who at such time is an employee of Purchaser, or any current customer of the Company or the Subsidiary who at such time is a customer of Purchaser, to cease or curtail his or her relationship therewith; , , that the restrictions of this Section 6.8(b) shall not apply to the placement of general advertisements or the use of general search firm services that are not targeted directly or indirectly toward employees or customers of Purchaser.
provided
however
(c) In the event that any covenant contained in this Section 6.8 should ever be adjudicated to exceed the time, geographic, product or service or other limitations permitted by applicable Law in any jurisdiction, then such adjudicating court is expressly empowered to reform such covenant, and such covenant shall be deemed reformed, in such jurisdiction to the maximum time, geographic, product, service and/or other limitations, as applicable, permitted by applicable Law. The covenants contained in this Section 6.8 and each provision thereof are severable and distinct covenants and provisions. The invalidity or unenforceability of any such covenant or provision as written shall not invalidate or render unenforceable the remaining covenants or provisions hereof, and any such invalidity or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such covenant or provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
Section 6.9 .
Confidentiality
(a) Prior to the Closing, each of the Sellers and Purchaser shall, except to the extent required by any Governmental Body or applicable Law, keep confidential, and shall use its best efforts to cause its respective directors, officers, representatives and Affiliates to keep confidential, all information concerning the other Parties disclosed prior to the date of this Agreement or hereafter in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and none of such information shall be used in any manner other than in connection with this Agreement and the other agreements contemplated hereby. If this Agreement is terminated, each of the Sellers and Purchaser shall promptly return to the other Parties, as applicable (or, if requested by such other Parties, destroy and certify such destruction to such other Parties in writing), all documents and materials (and productions thereof) furnished to it or its Affiliates or representatives in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
(b) For the period commencing on the Closing Date and ending on the fifth anniversary thereof, the Sellers shall, and shall cause their respective directors, officers, representatives and Affiliates to, treat and hold as confidential all information relating to the Business. Without limiting the foregoing, the Sellers shall not, and shall cause their respective partners, trustees, representatives and Affiliates not to, use or disclose any such confidential information to any Person (except as may be necessary to disclose such information to such Person's professional advisors); it being acknowledged that the foregoing restriction shall not be construed as extending the obligations of the Company or its Affiliates under Section 6.8 or the Non-Compete Agreement beyond the Restricted Period. In the event that any Seller or any of its partners, trustees, representatives or Affiliates is required (by a Governmental Body or by applicable Law) to disclose any such confidential information, then such Person shall promptly notify Purchaser of the requirement so that Purchaser may, at its expense, seek an appropriate protective order or waive compliance with this Section 6.9(b). If, in the absence of a protective order or receipt of a waiver hereunder, any Seller or any of its partners, trustees, representatives or Affiliates is, on the advice of counsel, compelled to disclose such confidential information, such Person may so disclose the confidential information; , , that such Person shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be afforded to such confidential information.
provided
however
(c) The provisions of this Section 6.9 will not be deemed to prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to the extent reasonably and directly required (i) to prepare or complete any required Tax Returns or financial statements, (ii) by a Governmental Body or (iii) to comply with any applicable Law. The provisions of this Section 6.9 shall not apply to information that is or becomes (A) publicly available other than as a result of a disclosure by the Party that received such information or (B) available to a Party or any of such Party's respective directors, officers, partners, trustees, representatives or Affiliates on a non-confidential basis from a source that, to the knowledge of such receiving Person, is not prohibited from disclosing such information by any legal, contractual or fiduciary obligation.
 
Section 6.10 .
Employee Matters
(a) Purchaser shall offer to each Business Employee employment with Purchaser, to be effective as of the Closing (the ""), which offers may be conditioned upon the occurrence of the Closing (for the avoidance of doubt, Employment Offers may be made orally). Each Employment Offer shall (x) be for a position substantially similar to the Business Employee's current position and at the Business Employee's current location and (y) include an offer to provide base pay that is equal to or higher than such Business Employee's base salary as of the Closing Date and employee benefits as described in Section 6.10(c); , , that subject to the following provisions of this Section 6.10, the foregoing shall not be construed to prevent Purchaser from changing the position, location, base pay or other terms and conditions of employment of any Continuing Employee following the Closing Date. The Business Employees who accept Employment Offers and actually (i) commence employment with Purchaser on the Closing Date, or (ii) on the Closing Date are on a leave previously approved by the Company or authorized by applicable Law (collectively, the "") shall become employees of Purchaser or one of its Affiliates effective as of immediately following the Closing and their employment with the Company shall cease as of immediately following the Closing. Any Business Employee who terminates employment with the Company as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and is subsequently hired by Purchaser within 180 days after the Closing Date shall be treated as a Continuing Employee. The Company agrees to cooperate in good faith with Purchaser to achieve the acceptance of all of the Employment Offers.
Employment Offer
provided
however
Continuing Employees
(b) At the Closing, without limiting Section 2.1, Purchaser shall assume the Change of Control Agreements and the Employment Agreements and, in each case, shall be solely responsible for any and all obligations thereunder following the Closing, except for the Change of Control Discretionary Bonuses (which are Excluded Liabilities for which the Company will claim deductions for income tax purposes) and except as otherwise set forth in this Section 6.10(b). For the avoidance of doubt, the Employment Agreements shall not include the SAR Agreements or the amounts payable thereunder (which are Excluded Liabilities). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that Purchaser, during the eighteen-month period following the Closing Date, pays any Change of Control Retention Bonuses or severance due under the Change of Control Agreements or Employment Agreements (including accrued benefits and compensation obligations, salary and bonus payments, health benefits, life insurance, employee tax gross-ups and employment-related Taxes) (the ""), then Purchaser shall deliver to the Company written evidence of each such payment and, at the option of Purchaser, (x) the Company shall pay to Purchaser an amount equal to 50% of the Retention and Severance Amounts within ten Business Days following such delivery, (y) Purchaser may deduct an amount equal to 50% of the Retention and Severance Amounts from amounts payable by Purchaser pursuant to Section 3.3(b) or (z) Purchaser may instruct the Escrow Agent in accordance with the Escrow Agreement to promptly pay to Purchaser an amount equal to 50% of such Retention and Severance Amounts; , that the Company's obligation to reimburse Purchaser for 50% of the Retention and Severance Amounts pursuant to this Section 6.10(b) shall be capped at $2,500,000 in the aggregate. Purchaser shall notify the Company upon the satisfaction of the conditions necessary for an applicable Business Employee to earn a Change of Control Discretionary Bonus or the Retention and Severance Amounts, as set forth in such Business Employee's Change of Control Agreement or Employment Agreement.
Retention and Severance Amounts
provided
 
(c) Each Continuing Employee shall be eligible to continue to participate, at the option of Purchaser, in Company Benefit Plans (to the extent assumed by Purchaser) or in the employee benefit plans maintained by Purchaser (each, a "") on substantially the same basis as similarly situated employees of Purchaser; , that the Continuing Employees shall be eligible to participate in Purchaser's 401(k) plan as soon as practicable following the Closing Date. Following the Closing Date, each Continuing Employee shall receive credit for all service with the Company prior to the Closing Date for purposes of eligibility to participate, vesting and benefit accrual where length of service is relevant (excluding accruals under defined benefit plans); , , that such service need not be credited to the extent that it would result in duplication of coverage or benefits. In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Purchaser shall, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, take all reasonable steps to (i) waive all limitations as to pre-existing conditions exclusions, evidence of insurability requirements, waiting periods and actively-at-work or similar requirements with respect to participation and coverage requirements applicable to the Continuing Employees under any medical, dental, pharmaceutical, vision and/or disability benefit plans that such employees may be eligible to participate in after the Closing Date; and (ii) provide Continuing Employees and their eligible dependents with credit for any co-payments, deductibles, out-of-pocket requirements and offsets (or similar payments) made under the Company Benefit Plans for the plan year in which the Closing occurs under Purchaser Benefit Plans for the purposes of satisfying any applicable deductible, out-of-pocket, or similar requirements thereunder as if such amounts had been paid in accordance with such Purchaser Benefit Plan. Any vacation or paid time off accrued but unused by a Continuing Employee as of the Closing Date shall be credited to such Continuing Employee following the Closing Date in accordance with the policies set forth in . The Continuing Employees are not third-party beneficiaries of the provisions of this Section 6.10, and nothing herein expressed or implied will give or be construed to give any Continuing Employee any legal or equitable rights hereunder, including any right to employment or continued employment for any specified period, or level of compensation or benefits. Nothing contained in this Section 6.10 or elsewhere in this Agreement, express or implied, shall (A) limit the right of Purchaser or its Affiliates to terminate the employment or services of, or to reassign or otherwise alter the status of, any Continuing Employee or contractor or consultant of the Company and the Subsidiary after the Closing, or to change in any manner the terms and conditions of his or her employment or other service to or engagement by the Company and the Subsidiary, (B) be construed to prevent, and no action by the Company or the Subsidiary prior to the Closing Date shall limit the ability of, Purchaser or its Affiliates from terminating or modifying to any extent or in any respect any employee benefit plan that Purchaser or its Affiliates may establish or maintain, or (C) be construed as amending any Company Benefit Plan as in effect immediately prior to the Closing.
Purchaser Benefit Plan
provided
provided
however
Schedule 6.10
(d) Prior to the Closing, the Company shall pay to each applicable Business Employee a bonus award determined in accordance with the applicable bonus plan, which will not be inconsistent with the past practices of the Company and which will be prorated to reflect the portion of the year actually worked for the Company.
(e) Prior to the Closing, the Company shall contribute to the Company's 401(k) Plan an amount equal to the Company's employer matching and profit sharing contributions for the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs through the Closing Date (which contributions shall be determined on a basis consistent with the Company's past practices).
(f) The Company and Purchaser agree that, pursuant to the "Alternative Procedures" provided in Section 5 of Revenue Procedure 2004-53, with respect to the filing and furnishing of Internal Revenue Service Forms W-2, W-3 and 941 for the full calendar year in which the Closing occurs, (i) the Company and Purchaser shall report on a "predecessor-successor" basis, as set forth therein, (ii) the Company shall be relieved from furnishing Forms W-2 to any Continuing Employees, and (iii) Purchaser shall assume the obligations of the Company to furnish Forms W-2 to such Continuing Employees and Forms W-2 and W-3 with respect to Continuing Employees to the Social Security Administration; that the Company shall transfer to Purchaser all Forms W-4 and W-5 with respect to the Continuing Employees, and such other data relating to Continuing Employees as shall be necessary for Purchaser to assume and satisfy such obligations accurately and in accordance with the law.
provided
 
(g) After the Closing, the selling group (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 54.4980B-9, Q&A-3(a)) of which the Company is a part will cease to offer a group health plan to employees and, accordingly, Purchaser agrees that it shall be solely responsible for satisfying the continuation coverage requirements pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(h) On or before the 30
th
day after the Closing, the Company shall pay to each respective recipient all amounts owed under (i) the Company's Phantom Stock Plan, effective as of April 1, 2010, as last amended; (ii) those certain Salary Continuation Agreements between the Company and each of Lonny Wittnebel, Ed Maloney, Allan Slizewski and Jim Schwier; and (iii) the SAR Agreements, in each case in accordance with the terms of the respective agreements.
(i) Purchaser shall maintain the Company's health care and dependent care flexible spending accounts established under Section 125 of the Code (that are in effect at the Closing) for the remainder of the calendar year in which the Closing occurs.
Section 6.11 . From the date hereof until the earlier of the Closing Date and the date of termination of this Agreement pursuant to Article IX, the Sellers shall not, and shall cause each of their respective directors, officers, managers, employees, Affiliates and other agents and representatives (including any investment banking, legal or accounting firm retained by any of them) not to: (a) initiate, solicit or seek, directly or indirectly, any inquiries or the making or implementation of any proposal or offer (including any proposal or offer to its stockholders or any of them) with respect to a merger, acquisition, consolidation, recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution, equity investment or similar transaction involving, or any purchase of all or any substantial portion of the assets or any equity securities of, the Company or the Subsidiary (any such proposal or offer, a ""); (b) engage in any negotiations concerning, or provide any confidential information or data to, or have any substantive discussions with, any Person relating to a Proposal; (c) otherwise cooperate in any effort or attempt to make, implement or accept a Proposal; or (d) enter into a Contract with any Person relating to a Proposal. If any inquiry, proposal or offer related to a Proposal is received, the Company shall notify Purchaser of such inquiry, offer or proposal (including the terms and conditions thereof and the identity of the Person making it) within 48 hours after receipt thereof.
Exclusivity
Proposal
Section 6.12 . At or prior to the Closing, the Company shall obtain releases, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser, of all Liens existing on any of the Transferred Assets.
Termination of Liens
 
Section 6.13 The Sellers shall give prompt written notice to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall give prompt written notice to the Company, of: (a) the discovery by any of them of any event, condition, fact or circumstance that could cause or constitute a material inaccuracy in any representation or warranty made by any Party in this Agreement; (b) the failure by a Party to comply with or satisfy in any material respect any covenant, condition or agreement to be complied with or satisfied by such Party under this Agreement; (c) any notice or other communication from any Person alleging that the Consent of such Person is or may be required in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; or (d) any notice from any Governmental Body in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Agreement; , , that, subject to the last sentence of this Section 6.13, in each case, such notice shall not (i) constitute a waiver of any defense that may be validly asserted, (ii) except as otherwise set forth in Article VIII, limit or otherwise affect any remedies available to Purchaser or the Sellers or prevent or cure any misrepresentation or breach of representation, warranty or covenant (including for purposes of Article VII and Article VIII), (iii) amend or supplement any Schedule or constitute an exception to any representation or warranty or (iv) prejudice any rights of any of the Parties under this Agreement, including the right to claim that the representations and warranties of the Company, when made on the date hereof or as of the Closing Date, were untrue, or that any condition to Closing was unfulfilled; , , , that notwithstanding the immediately preceding proviso, if the Party receiving the notice pursuant to this Section 6.13 elects to proceed with the Closing notwithstanding the receipt of such notice, such Party shall be deemed to have waived its right to indemnification pursuant to Article VIII solely with respect to the inaccuracy, failure, breach or other matter set forth in such notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing in this Section 6.13, the Sellers shall be permitted to update , , , , (with respect to the list of Permits only), (with respect to the list of Environmental Permits only), , , , and no later than five Business Days prior to the Closing to reflect changes that (x) have occurred in the Ordinary Course of Business after the date hereof and prior to the Closing Date and (y) do not constitute a violation of any covenant or agreement of the Sellers contained in this Agreement, and such updates shall have the effect of curing any breach of the applicable representation or warranty of the Sellers for the purpose of Section 7.1(a), Section 9.1(b) and Article VIII; , that in the event the Sellers update , , or pursuant to this Section 6.13 to reflect any material consent, waiver, Consent or Permit, Purchaser may update or , as applicable, to reflect such material consent, waiver, Consent or Permit.
Notice of Developments.
provided
however
provided
further
however
Schedules 4.1
4.4(a)
4.4(b)
4.6(a)
4.8(b)
4.9
4.10(c)
4.14
4.15(a)
4.17
4.24(a)
provided
Schedule 4.4(a)
4.4(b)
4.8(b)
4.9
Schedule 3.5(b)(vi)
7.1(d)
Section 6.14 . To the extent that Purchaser does not have sufficient cash to enable Purchaser to pay when due the full consideration payable to the Sellers hereunder, Purchaser shall use, as promptly as practicable, its best efforts to arrange and obtain financing in an amount sufficient to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby in a timely manner.
Purchaser's Financing
Section 6.15 . From and after the Closing Date, Purchaser will assume the sole defense at its sole cost and expense of the Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings and will have sole control of all aspects of the Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings, including choice of counsel, strategy and compromise or settlement of such litigation, except that Purchaser shall not incur, consent to or suffer any liability or obligation binding on the Company without the written consent of the Company. The Company will have no right to participate in, or control, any aspect of the Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings from and after the Closing Date, except as may be necessary to obtain the Company's dismissal from the Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings. Purchaser shall provide full cooperation as may be necessary to assist with the Company's dismissal from the Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings. The Company shall cooperate, in all reasonable respects and at Purchaser's expense, with Purchaser and its attorneys in the investigation, trial and defense or prosecution of any Paragraph IV Legal Proceeding.
Paragraph IV Legal Proceedings
 
Section 6.16 . Subject to Section 6.3(b), from and after the date hereof, the Parties will cooperate in connection with the transfer of the transferable Product Approvals and Permits to Purchaser as of the Closing Date and the obtaining by Purchaser of new Product Approvals and Permits to the extent a Product Approval or Permit is not transferable. Prior to the Closing Date, the Parties will agree upon procedures to ensure a smooth transition from the Company to Purchaser of all of the activities required to be undertaken by the holder of the Product Approvals and Permits, including adverse experience reporting, quarterly and annual reports to the FDA, handling and tracking of complaints, sample tracking, and communication with health care professionals and customers. Purchaser shall be responsible for any expense associated with the transactions contemplated by this Section 6.16. After the Closing, Purchaser shall assume all responsibility for the Product Approvals and Permits, including all responsibility for communications with the FDA and any other Governmental Body concerning the Products. Each Party shall cooperate with the other in making and maintaining all regulatory filings that may be necessary in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Transfer of Product Approvals and Permits
Section 6.17 . At or prior to the Closing, the Company and Paddock Properties shall terminate that certain Lease Agreement between the Company and Bruce Paddock, dated October 29, 1993, and assigned to Paddock Properties pursuant to that certain Assignment of Lease Agreement, dated February 12, 2002, between Bruce Paddock, Kristine Paddock and Paddock Properties relating to the Real Estate.
Termination of Real Estate Lease
Section 6.18 . From and after the Closing, the Sellers shall cooperate with Purchaser, as may be reasonably necessary, in order to make available to Purchaser any existing insurance coverage held by the Sellers with respect to which any of the Transferred Assets are covered relating to occurrences prior to the Closing (the ""), including seeking the written consent of the applicable insurance companies permitting Purchaser to seek recovery under the Seller Policies after the Closing for pre-Closing Losses or occurrences. In the event of an occurrence that Purchaser believes may be covered by one or more of the Seller Policies, the Sellers shall provide such assistance as Purchaser may reasonably require in order to pursue a claim with the applicable insurer, including, if necessary, acting as the direct contact for all purposes with such insurer and pursuing such claim on behalf of Purchaser. Purchaser shall be responsible for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by the Sellers in connection with their performance of this Section 6.18, including any increase in premiums under the Seller Policies relating to any claim by Purchaser. Purchaser acknowledges that the denial by any applicable insurer of the coverage or recovery sought by Purchaser pursuant to this Section 6.18 shall not constitute a breach by the Sellers of their obligations under this Section 6.18.
Insurance
Seller Policies
Section 6.19 . From and after the Closing, Purchaser shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, cooperate with the Company, including making relevant Continuing Employees available to the Company and its representatives during normal business hours and without disruption to Purchaser's business and making available to the Company and its representatives relevant books and records, in connection with the discharge by the Company of the Excluded Liabilities, including the defense by the Company of those Legal Proceedings included in the Excluded Liabilities. The Company shall be responsible for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Purchaser in connection with its performance of this Section 6.19.
Cooperation by Purchaser
 
Section 6.20 .
Easement
(a) This Section 6.20 refers to that certain parcel of the Real Estate (the "") that is subject to that certain PCS Site Agreement dated May 16, 2001 between Bruce G. Paddock and Kristine J. Paddock (collectively, the ""), as lessor, and Sprint Spectrum L.P. (""), as lessee, as amended by that certain First Amendment to PCS Site Agreement dated as of July 16, 2008 between Paddock Properties, as successor-in-interest to the Paddocks, and STC Five LLC (""), as successor-in-interest to SSLP (the Original Lease Agreement, as amended by the First Lease Amendment, and as may be further amended, restated, replaced and/or modified in accordance with this Section 6.20(a), the ""). During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Sellers shall not, and shall cause their Affiliates not to, amend, restate, replace or modify the Cell Tower Lease Agreement without the prior written consent of Purchaser.
Cell Tower Site
Paddocks
SSLP
STC V
Cell Tower Lease Agreement
(b) During the 45-day period following the date hereof, Sellers shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a waiver of the right of first refusal in respect of the Cell Tower Site in favor of STC V (the "") from STC V or its duly authorized representative.
ROFR
(c) If Sellers cannot obtain the waiver contemplated in Section 6.20(b) and STC V timely elects to exercise the ROFR, Paddock Properties shall consummate with STC V a perpetual easement to the Cell Tower Site in connection with the Cell Tower Lease Agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser. Purchaser acknowledges and agrees that the entry into the easement described in the immediately preceding sentence will not constitute a breach of any of the representations of the Sellers set forth in Article IV.
(d) If STC V delivers the waiver in Section 6.20(b) or does not timely elect to exercise the ROFR, the Sellers and Purchaser shall, prior to the Closing Date, negotiate in good faith and agree to a perpetual easement in gross (the "") in connection with the Cell Tower Site and Cell Tower Lease Agreement, which Easement shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser and Paddock Properties and record the Easement immediately following the Closing.
Easement
Section 7.1 . The obligation of Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is subject to the fulfillment, on or prior to the Closing Date, of each of the following conditions (any or all of which may be waived in writing by Purchaser in whole or in part to the extent permitted by applicable Law):
Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Purchaser
(a) The representations and warranties of the Sellers contained in this Agreement that are qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects, and each of such representations and warranties not qualified by materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all material respects, in each case as of the Closing Date as though made as of the Closing Date, except in each case for those representations and warranties that address matters only as of a particular date (which shall have been true and correct as of such date);
 
(b) The Sellers shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all obligations and covenants required by this Agreement to be performed or complied with by them on or prior to the Closing Date;
(c) There shall not be in effect any Law or Order restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby;
(d) The waiting period applicable to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement under the Antitrust Laws shall have expired, or early termination in respect thereof shall have been granted and any required approvals or clearances shall have been obtained, and Purchaser shall have received the Permits set forth on (which Purchaser agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain after the date hereof);
Schedule 7.1(d)
(e) There shall not have occurred any change, effect, circumstance or event that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and
(f) The Sellers shall have delivered, or caused to be delivered, all of the items set forth in Section 3.5(b).
Section 7.2 . The obligations of the Sellers to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the fulfillment, prior to or on the Closing Date, of each of the following conditions (any or all of which may be waived in writing by the Sellers in whole or in part to the extent permitted by applicable Law):
Conditions Precedent to Obligations of the Sellers
(a) The representations and warranties of Purchaser contained in this Agreement that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct in all respects, and each of such representations and warranties not qualified by materiality shall be true and correct in all material respects, in each case as of the Closing Date as though made as of the Closing Date, except in each case for those representations and warranties that address matters only as of a particular date (which shall have been true and correct as of such date);
(b) Purchaser shall have performed and complied in all material respects with all obligations and covenants required by this Agreement to be performed or complied with by Purchaser on or prior to the Closing Date;
(c) There shall not be in effect any Law or Order restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby;
 
(d) The waiting period applicable to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement under the Antitrust Laws shall have expired, or early termination in respect thereof shall have been granted and any required approvals or clearances shall have been obtained; and
(e) Purchaser shall have delivered, or caused to be delivered, all of the items set forth in Section 3.5(c).
Section 7.3 . Neither of the Sellers nor Purchaser may rely on the failure of any condition set forth in Section 7.1 or 7.2, as the case may be, to be satisfied if such failure was caused by such Party's breach of any provision of this Agreement.
Frustration of Closing Conditions
Section 8.1 . The representations and warranties of the Parties contained in or made pursuant to (a) Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.12, 4.16, 4.20, 5.1, 5.2 and 5.5 shall survive the Closing until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations period (after giving effect to all waivers and extensions thereof), (b) Sections 4.8 and 4.9 shall survive until the second anniversary of the Closing Date, (c) all other sections of Articles IV and V shall survive until the date that is 18 months after the Closing Date and (d) all covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement that come into, or are to remain in, effect after the Closing Date shall survive for the periods contemplated by such covenants and agreements (such survival periods, the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, the Parties hereby agree and acknowledge that the Survival Periods are contractual statutes of limitations and any claim brought by any Party pursuant to this Article VIII must be brought or filed prior to the expiration of the applicable Survival Period.
Survival
Survival Periods
Section 8.2 . Subject to Section 8.4, from and after the Closing Date, the Company shall indemnify and hold Purchaser and its Affiliates, agents, successors and assigns (collectively, the "") harmless from and against any out-of-pocket loss, liability, claim, charge, debt, assessed interest, judgment, fine, penalty, damage, fee or expense (including reasonable legal, consultant, accounting and other professional fees and expenses and including any mitigation cost and any cost of determining that there has been a breach under this Agreement (provided that a breach is determined to have occurred)) or Tax (collectively, "") incurred by such Purchaser Indemnified Party resulting from (a) any breach of any representation and warranty of the Company and Paddock Properties contained in Article IV or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement, (b) any failure by the Sellers to perform any covenant or agreement hereunder or under any agreement contemplated hereby, (c) any Liabilities relating to or arising out of or in connection with the Company's ownership or operation of the Excluded Assets prior to the Closing, (d) any Excluded Liability (, , that the Company shall have no obligation to indemnify any Purchaser Indemnified Party for any Losses resulting from those Excluded Assets and Excluded Liabilities set forth on ), and (e) any Legal Proceeding based on or arising out of the same or similar facts or circumstances as those involved in the Legal Proceedings set forth as items 14, 15 and 16 on , to the extent that such Legal Proceeding arises out of actions by the Company or its employees prior to the Closing.
Indemnification by the Company
Purchaser Indemnified Parties
Losses
provided
however
Schedule 8.2
Schedule 1.1(b)
 
For purposes of determining the amount of Losses incurred with respect to a breach of any representation or warranty contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement, each such representation or warranty shall be read without reference to "materiality" or "Material Adverse Effect" qualifier.
Section 8.3 . Subject to Section 8.4, from and after the Closing Date, Purchaser shall indemnify and hold the Sellers and their respective Affiliates, agents, successors and assigns (collectively, the "") harmless from and against all Losses incurred by any Seller Indemnified Party resulting from (a) any breach of any representation and warranty contained in Article V of this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement, (b) any failure by Purchaser to perform any covenant or agreement hereunder or under any agreement contemplated hereby and (c) any Transferred Liability (, , that Purchaser shall have no obligation to indemnify any Seller Indemnified Party for any Losses resulting from those Transferred Liabilities set forth on except to the extent that such Transferred Liabilities arise out of Purchaser's performance of, or breach or default under, the Contracts identified on after the Closing). For purposes of determining the amount of Losses incurred with respect to a breach of any representation or warranty contained in this Agreement or in any certificate delivered pursuant to this Agreement, each such representation or warranty shall be read without reference to "materiality" or "Material Adverse Effect" qualifier.
Indemnification by Purchaser
Seller Indemnified Parties
provided
however
Schedule 8.3
Schedule 8.3
Section 8.4 .
Limitations on Indemnification
(a) Neither the Company nor Purchaser shall have any liability under Section 8.2(a) or 8.3(a), as applicable, unless and until the aggregate amount of Losses suffered, sustained or incurred by the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, exceeds 1.0% of the Cash Purchase Price (the ""), after which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, shall be entitled to indemnification for all Losses incurred by the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Seller Indemnified Parties, as applicable, and not just the excess over the Basket; , that the limitations set forth in this Section 8.4(a) shall not apply to breaches of the representations and warranties listed in Section 8.1(a) (other than those representations or warranties set forth in Section 4.16).
Basket
provided
(b) In no event shall the cumulative indemnification obligations of the Company or Purchaser under Section 8.2(a) or 8.3(a), as applicable, exceed $54,000,000 (the ""); , that the limitations set forth in this Section 8.4(b) shall not apply to breaches of the representations and warranties listed in Section 8.1(a) (other than those representations or warranties set forth in Section 4.16); , , that all amounts paid by the Company or Purchaser, as the case may be, in respect of indemnification for the representations and warranties listed in Section 8.1(a) shall be taken into account when determining whether the Cap has been reached for all of such Party's other indemnification obligations under Sections 8.2(a) and 8.3(a).
Cap
provided
provided
however
(c) The Parties shall treat any and all payments under this Article VIII as an adjustment to the Purchase Price for income Tax purposes, unless they are required to treat such payments otherwise pursuant to a closing agreement with the applicable taxing authority or the decision of a court with jurisdiction over such matters.
 
(d) The Parties shall use commercially reasonable efforts to collect the proceeds of any insurance that would have the effect of reducing any Losses, and the amount of any Losses incurred by any indemnified party shall be reduced by the amount of any insurance proceeds actually recovered by such indemnified party. If indemnification payments shall have been received prior to the collection of such insurance proceeds, such indemnified party shall remit to the indemnifying party the amount of such insurance proceeds to the extent of indemnification payments received in respect of such Losses (in each case, net of all costs of collection thereof, including attorneys' fees). To the extent any Loss of an indemnified party is reduced by receipt of payment (i) under insurance policies which are not subject to retroactive adjustment or other reimbursement to the insurer in respect of such payment, or (ii) from third parties not affiliated with the indemnified party, such payments (net of the expenses of the recovery thereof) shall be credited against any such Losses.
(e) The indemnifying party shall be subrogated to the indemnified party's rights of recovery to the extent of any Losses paid by the indemnifying party. The indemnified party shall execute and deliver such instruments and papers as are necessary to assign such rights and assist in the exercise thereof.
(f) Except as set forth in Section 11.3 in respect of Section 6.5, 6.6, 6.8 or 6.9, if the Closing occurs, the remedies provided for in this Article VIII (and as limited by this Article VIII) shall be the sole remedies of the indemnified parties in respect of any claims, howsoever denominated, arising out of this Agreement or relating in any way to the subject matter hereof, and shall preclude assertion by the indemnified parties of any other rights or the seeking of any other remedies against the indemnifying parties with respect to the matters covered by the indemnification provisions contained in this Article VIII or otherwise relating in any manner to the subject matter hereof. In furtherance of the foregoing and, if the Closing occurs, each Party shall waive, to the fullest extent permitted under applicable Law, and agrees not to assert in any action or proceeding of any kind, any and all rights, claims and causes of action it may then or thereafter have against any other Party (including any such rights, claims or causes of action arising under or based upon common law or equity) other than claims for indemnification asserted as permitted by and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Article VIII.
(g) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, a Purchaser Indemnified Party shall not be entitled to indemnification for any Losses to the extent such item or matter was taken into account in the calculation of Final Working Capital or Final Debt Amount.
(h) EXCEPT IN THE CASE OF THIRD PARTY CLAIMS, NO PARTY WILL IN ANY EVENT BE LIABLE UNDER THIS ARTICLE VIII FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS OR EARNINGS, DIMINUTION IN VALUE OR SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES BY REASON OF A BREACH OF ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY, COVENANT OR INDEMNITY CONTAINED HEREIN.
 
(i) The Seller Indemnified Parties or Purchaser Indemnified Parties, as the case may be, shall use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate all Losses sustained by such Person(s).
(j) In no event shall any indemnified party be entitled to double recovery hereunder. If any circumstance constitutes a breach of more than one representation, warranty or covenant of an indemnifying party, the indemnified party(ies) shall only be entitled to recover once in respect of such circumstance.
(k) The Purchaser Indemnified Parties shall first utilize the Escrow Amount to satisfy any claims for indemnification hereunder before attempting to obtain indemnification directly from the Sellers.
Section 8.5 .
Indemnification Procedures
(a) Subject to Section 10.2, in the event that any Legal Proceeding is instituted or asserted by a third party in respect of which indemnification will be sought under Section 8.2 or 8.3 hereof, the indemnified party shall promptly cause written notice (the "") of the assertion of such Legal Proceeding to be forwarded to the indemnifying party. The indemnifying party shall have the right, at its sole option and expense, by providing written notice acknowledging its obligation to indemnify the indemnified party pursuant to Section 8.2 or 8.3 to (i) take control of the defense and investigation of such Legal Proceeding, (ii) employ and engage attorneys of its own choice (subject to the approval of the indemnified party, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to handle and defend the same, at the indemnifying party's sole cost, risk and expense, and (iii) compromise or settle such Legal Proceeding, which compromise or settlement shall be made only with the written consent of the indemnified party; , that such consent will not be required if such settlement includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party and otherwise provides solely for payment of monetary damages for which the indemnifying party will be responsible (except with respect to an item relating to Taxes, which is covered in Section 10.2). The indemnified party shall, at the expense of the indemnifying party, cooperate in all reasonable respects with the indemnifying parties and their attorneys in the investigation, trial and defense of such Legal Proceeding and any appeal arising therefrom, and the indemnified party may, at its own cost, monitor and further participate in the investigation, trial and defense of such Legal Proceeding and any appeal arising therefrom. Notwithstanding the indemnifying parties' election to assume the defense of such Legal Proceeding, the indemnified party shall have, upon giving prior written notice to the indemnifying parties, the right to employ one separate counsel and to participate in the defense of such Legal Proceeding, and the indemnifying parties shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel for the indemnified party if, but only if, the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded in good faith that (x) an actual or potential conflict of interest (including one or more legal defenses or counterclaims available to it or to other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying parties) makes it inappropriate in the reasonable judgment of the indemnified party (upon and in conformity with the advice of counsel) for the same counsel to represent both the indemnified party and the indemnifying parties or (y) the claim seeks nonmonetary relief which, if granted, could materially and adversely affect the indemnified party or its Affiliates. If the indemnifying party elects not to defend against such Legal Proceeding, does not, within 60 days after receipt of the Third Party Notice (or such earlier date, if the failure to assume the defense by such earlier date would materially impair the ability of the indemnified party to defend such Legal Proceeding), acknowledge in writing its intent to assume the defense of such Legal Proceeding pursuant to this Section 8.5(a), or contests its obligation to indemnify the indemnified party in connection with such Legal Proceeding, the indemnified party may defend against such Legal Proceeding and the indemnifying parties shall have the right to participate therein at their own cost. If the indemnified party defends any Legal Proceeding, then it shall keep the indemnifying party regularly apprised of the status of the Legal Proceeding and the indemnifying party shall reimburse the indemnified party for the reasonable expenses of one counsel engaged by the indemnified party to defend such Legal Proceeding upon submission of periodic bills and, if the indemnified party is Purchaser, Purchaser shall be entitled in accordance with the Escrow Agreement to instruct the Escrow Agent to release from escrow to Purchaser an amount equal to such reasonable expenses. In no event shall the indemnified party be entitled to compromise or settle any Legal Proceeding without the prior written consent of the indemnifying party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.
Third Party Claims.
Third Party Notice
provided
 
(b) . Subject to Section 10.2, if a claim for Losses (a "") is to be made by any indemnified party not in connection with a Legal Proceeding instituted by a third party, such indemnified party shall give written notice (a "") to the indemnifying party reasonably promptly after such indemnified party becomes aware of any fact, condition or event giving rise to Losses for which indemnification may be sought under this Article VIII. If the indemnifying party notifies the indemnified party that it does not dispute the claim described in such Claim Notice, the Losses identified in the Claim Notice will be conclusively deemed a liability of the indemnified party, and, if the indemnified party is Purchaser, Purchaser shall be entitled in accordance with the Escrow Agreement to instruct the Escrow Agent to release the amount of such Losses to Purchaser.
Non-Third Party Claims
Claim
Claim Notice
(c) After any final deductible judgment or award shall have been rendered by a court, arbitration board or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, and the time in which to appeal therefrom has expired, or a settlement shall have been consummated, or the indemnified party and the indemnifying party shall have arrived at a mutually binding agreement with respect to a Legal Proceeding hereunder, the indemnified party shall forward to the indemnifying party notice of any sums due and owing by the indemnifying party pursuant to this Agreement with respect to such matter and, unless the indemnifying party disputes any such amounts, the indemnifying party shall promptly pay such amounts; , that if the indemnified party is Purchaser, Purchaser shall be entitled in accordance with the Escrow Agreement to instruct the Escrow Agent to release from escrow such amounts to Purchaser.
provided
(d) The failure of the indemnified party to deliver the Claim Notice or Third Party Notice shall not release, waive or otherwise affect the indemnifying party's obligations with respect thereto, except if the indemnifying party can demonstrate actual loss and prejudice as a result of such failure.
 
Section 9.1 . This Agreement may be terminated prior to the Closing as follows:
Termination of Agreement
(a) by the Company or Purchaser if the Closing shall not have been consummated within 180 days after the date hereof (which date shall be extended for an additional 90 days, plus the number of days set forth in Section 3.5(a), in the event that (i) any applicable review period in connection with any Antitrust Law has not ended or any approval required thereunder has not been received by the end of such 180-day period or (ii) Purchaser is in the process of obtaining the Permits set forth on (as the same may be amended pursuant to Section 6.13), in each case, so long as no Party is in default under this Agreement and all other conditions precedent to the Closing have been or are reasonably expected to be satisfied prior to the expiration of such additional 90-day period or, by their terms, are to be satisfied at the Closing); , , that no Party may terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 9.1(a) if the Closing shall not have been consummated by such date by reason of the failure of such Party to perform, or to cause its Affiliates to perform, in all material respects any of its or their respective covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement;
Schedule 7.1(d)
provided
however
(b) by the Company or Purchaser in the event of a breach by the Sellers or Purchaser, as applicable, of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement under this Agreement, where the effect of such breach would be to cause the conditions to the obligation to consummate the Closing of the terminating Party to be incapable of being satisfied, and such breach is not cured by the breaching Party within 30 days after receiving written notice from the terminating Party of the breach or alleged breach (it being understood that such 30 day cure period shall not under any circumstances extend the date set forth in Section 9.1(a)); , , that the terminating Party shall not be entitled to terminate this Agreement if it is then in breach of any of its representations, warranties, covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement;
provided
however
(c) by mutual written consent of the Company and Purchaser at any time prior to the Closing Date; or
(d) by the Company or Purchaser if there shall be enacted a Law or imposed any Order restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby; it being agreed that the Parties shall promptly appeal any adverse determination which is not nonappealable (and pursue such appeal with reasonable diligence).
Section 9.2 . In the event of termination of this Agreement by Purchaser or the Company, or both, pursuant to Section 9.1, written notice thereof shall forthwith be given to the other Party, and this Agreement shall terminate, and the purchase of the Transferred Assets hereunder shall be abandoned, without further action by Purchaser or the Sellers. If this Agreement is terminated as provided herein, each Party shall promptly return to the other Parties, as applicable (or, if requested by such other Parties, destroy and certify such destruction to such other Parties in writing), all documents and materials (and production thereof) furnished to it or its Affiliates or representatives in connection with this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Procedure Upon Termination
 
Section 9.3 . In the event that this Agreement is validly terminated as provided herein, then each of the Parties shall be relieved of its duties and obligations arising under this Agreement after the date of such termination and such termination shall be without liability to Purchaser or either Seller; , , that the obligations of the Parties set forth in Section 6.6 and Section 6.9, this Section 9.3 and Article XI shall survive any such termination and shall continue to be enforceable hereunder; and , , that nothing in this Section 9.3 shall relieve Purchaser or either Seller of any liability for a breach of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
provided
however
provided
further
Section 10.1 . The Sellers shall have the exclusive obligation and authority to prepare, file or cause to be filed all federal, state, local, and foreign Tax Returns that are required to be filed by the Sellers pursuant to applicable Law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Purchaser shall prepare, promptly after the Closing Date, all sales and use, property tax, employment tax and similar Tax Returns of the Sellers and the Subsidiary that relate exclusively to the Business and the Transferred Assets that are due to be filed after the Closing Date, but not including any income, franchise or similar Tax Return. With respect to each Tax Return of the Sellers or the Subsidiary required to be prepared by Purchaser pursuant to the preceding sentence, Purchaser shall deliver, such Tax Returns to the Sellers a reasonable period of time prior to the due date for the filing of such Tax Return (taking into account available extensions), but Purchaser will not be responsible for filing any such Tax Return or paying any Tax due with respect to such Tax Return.
Tax Returns
Section 10.2 . The Sellers shall have the exclusive authority to control any audit or examination by any taxing authority and contest, resolve and defend against any assessment for additional Taxes, notice of Tax deficiency or other adjustment of Taxes of or relating to any liability of the Company for Taxes for any Pre-Closing Period.
Tax Controversies
Section 10.3 . Purchaser shall promptly forward to the Sellers all written notifications and other communications from any taxing authority received by Purchaser relating to any Tax audit or other proceeding relating to any Tax liability for which the Sellers may be obligated to indemnify Purchaser pursuant to Section 8.2. The failure of Purchaser to give the Sellers such written notice shall excuse the Sellers from their obligations under Section 8.2 with respect to any increased Tax liability directly or indirectly attributable to any such written notification or other communication if the failure to provide such written notice materially adversely affected the ability of the Sellers to contest any claim arising from such Tax audit or other proceeding.
Notification
 
Section 10.4 . All real property Taxes, personal property Taxes and similar ad valorem obligations levied with respect to the Transferred Assets for a taxable period that includes (but does not end on) the Closing Date shall be apportioned between the Sellers and Purchaser as of the Closing Date based on the number of days of such taxable period included in the Pre-Closing Tax Period, and the number of days of such taxable period included in the Post-Closing Tax Period. The Sellers shall be liable for the proportionate amount of such Taxes that is attributable to the Pre-Closing Tax Period, and Purchaser shall be liable for the proportionate amount of such Taxes that is attributable to the Post-Closing Period. If bills for such Taxes have not been issued as of the Closing Date, and, if the amount of such Taxes for the period including the Closing Date is not then known, the apportionment of such Taxes shall be made at Closing on the basis of the prior period's Taxes. After Closing, upon receipt of bills for the period including the Closing Date, adjustments to the apportionment shall be made by the parties, so that if either party paid more than its proper share at the Closing, the other Party shall promptly reimburse such Party for the excess amount paid by them.
Apportionment of Taxes
Section 10.5 . If the Company makes any payment on account of a Tax under Section 8.2 for any Pre-Closing Period and the payment of such Tax gives rise to a current federal, state, local or foreign Tax Benefit to Purchaser or any of its Affiliates for a Post-Closing Period, then promptly following the filing of the Tax Return (or Tax Returns) reflecting such Tax Benefit, Purchaser shall pay to the Company the amount of such Tax Benefit. The determination of any such Tax Benefit shall be made in good faith by Purchaser. For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the sum of the amount by which the Tax of Purchaser or its Affiliates to the appropriate taxing authority is permanently reduced (including, without limitation, by or as a result of a deduction, increase in basis, entitlement to refund, credit or otherwise) plus any interest (on an after-Tax basis) from such government or jurisdiction relating to such Tax liability.
Tax Benefit
Tax Benefit
Section 10.6 . Purchaser and the Sellers shall provide each other with such assistance as may be reasonably requested by Purchaser or the Sellers in connection with the preparation of any Tax Return, any audit, or any judicial or administrative proceeding or determination relating to liability for Taxes. Purchaser and the Seller shall retain all Tax Returns, schedules, work papers and all material records or other documents relating to Tax matters of the Business or the Transferred Assets for the first taxable year or other taxable period ending after the Closing Date and for all prior taxable years or other taxable periods until the later of (a) seven years after the later of filing or the due date of the return or (b) the expiration of all applicable statutes of limitation, and provide the other Party, upon the reasonable request of such other Party and at the cost of the requesting Party with any record or information (including making employees available to such other Party for reasonable periods of time) which may be relevant to such Tax Return, audit, proceeding or determination.
Post-Closing Access and Cooperation
Section 11.1 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all sales, use, transfer, intangible, recordation, documentary stamp or similar Taxes or charges, of any nature whatsoever, applicable to, or resulting from, the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be borne equally by Purchaser, on the one hand, and the Sellers, on the other hand.
Payment of Sales, Use or Similar Taxes
 
Section 11.2 . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Sellers, on the one hand, and Purchaser, on the other hand, shall bear their own expenses incurred in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Agreement and each other agreement, document and instrument contemplated by this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Expenses
Section 11.3 . The Parties agree that irreparable damage would occur and that the Parties would not have any adequate remedy at law in respect of a breach of Section 2.1, Section 3.4, Section 6.5, Section 6.6, Section 6.8 or Section 6.9. It is accordingly agreed that the Parties shall be entitled to an injunction, specific performance or other equitable relief with respect to breaches, threatened breaches or the non-performance by the other Parties of the terms and provisions of such Sections, this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity.
Specific Performance
Section 11.4 . Each Seller and Purchaser agrees to execute and deliver such other documents or agreements and to take such other action as may be reasonably necessary or desirable for the implementation of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Further Assurances
Section 11.5 .
Submission to Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(a) Each Party hereby irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any federal or state court located within the State of New York over any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby and such Party hereby irrevocably agrees that all claims in respect of such dispute or any Legal Proceeding related thereto may be heard and determined in such courts. Each Party hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law, any objection which he, she or it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such dispute brought in such court or any defense of inconvenient forum for the maintenance of such dispute. Each of the Parties agrees that a judgment in any such dispute may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by Law.
(b) Each of the Parties hereby consents to process being served by any Party in any Legal Proceeding by the mailing of a copy thereof in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.10.
Section 11.6 .
Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers
(a) This Agreement (including the schedules and exhibits hereto) represents the entire understanding and agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and can be amended, supplemented or changed, and any provision hereof can be waived, only by written instrument making specific reference to this Agreement signed by the Party against whom enforcement of any such amendment, supplement, modification or waiver is sought. The waiver by any Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a further or continuing waiver of such breach or as a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. No failure on the part of any Party to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of such right, power or remedy by such Party preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies provided in this Agreement are the only remedies available to the Parties in connection with this Agreement.
 
(b) Each Party acknowledges and agrees that no representation, warranty, promise, inducement, understanding, covenant or agreement has been made or relied upon by it other than those expressly set forth in this Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the disclaimer set forth in the preceding sentence, (i) no Party nor any of its Affiliates has made or shall be deemed to have made any representation or warranty in any presentation or written information relating to its business given or to be given in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or in any filing made or to be made by or on behalf of such Party or any of its Affiliates with any Governmental Body, and no statement made in any such presentation or written materials, made in any such filing or contained in any such other information shall be deemed a representation or warranty hereunder or otherwise, and (ii) each of the Parties, on its own behalf and on behalf of its respective Affiliates, expressly disclaims any implied warranties, including warranties of fitness for a particular purpose and warranties of merchantability. Each Party acknowledges that each other Party, as applicable, has informed it that no Person has been authorized by such Party or any of its Affiliates to make any representation or warranty in respect of its business or in connection with this Agreement, unless in writing and contained in this Agreement.
Section 11.7 . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal Laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the conflicts of Law principles thereof.
Governing Law
Section 11.8 . EACH PARTY HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY, INTENTIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT WHICH SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY PROCEEDING, LITIGATION OR COUNTERCLAIM BASED ON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY. IF THE SUBJECT MATTER OF ANY LAWSUIT IS ONE IN WHICH THE WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL IS PROHIBITED, NO PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT SHALL PRESENT, AS A NON-COMPULSORY COUNTERCLAIM IN ANY SUCH LAWSUIT, ANY CLAIM BASED ON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. FURTHERMORE, NO PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT SHALL SEEK TO CONSOLIDATE ANY SUCH ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL CANNOT BE WAIVED.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
Section 11.9 . The table of contents and section headings of this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are to be given no effect in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Table of Contents and Headings
 
Section 11.10 . All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon (a) personal delivery, (b) transmitter's confirmation of receipt of a facsimile transmission, (c) confirmed delivery by a standard overnight carrier of national reputation or when delivered by hand or (d) when mailed in the United States by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed at the following addresses (or to such other address as a Party may have specified by notice delivered as required under this provision):
Notices
 
Section 11.11 . If any provision of this Agreement or portion thereof is held to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed amended as necessary to make it valid and enforceable while retaining as best as possible its original meaning and intent, and the balance of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
Severability
Section 11.12 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Nothing in this Agreement shall create or be deemed to create any third party beneficiary rights in any person or entity not a Party to this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. No assignment of this Agreement or of any rights or obligations hereunder may be made by either the Sellers or Purchaser (by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other Party and any attempted assignment without the required consents shall be void; , that Purchaser may assign any of its rights (but not its obligations) to any direct or indirect subsidiary of Purchaser.
Binding Effect; Assignment
provided
 
Section 11.13 . The specific disclosures set forth in the Schedules attached hereto have been organized to correspond to certain Sections in this Agreement to which each such disclosure may relate, but each such disclosure will apply to and will be deemed to be an exception to or modification or qualification of all representations and/or warranties contained herein to the extent that it is reasonably apparent on the face of such disclosure that such disclosure is applicable thereto. None of the information contained in the Schedules attached hereto is intended to constitute, and it shall not be deemed to limit, alter or expand the scope or effect of any representation or warranty contained herein, except as and to the extent explicitly provided in this Agreement. The inclusion of any information in the Schedules attached hereto shall not be deemed an admission or acknowledgement that such information is material, has resulted or would result in a Material Adverse Effect, is outside the Ordinary Course of Business or is otherwise required to be disclosed.
Disclosure Schedules
Section 11.14 . This Agreement may be executed and delivered in two or more counterparts (including by electronic transmission), each of which will be deemed to be an original copy of this Agreement and all of which, when taken together, will be deemed to constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
Section 11.15 .
Guarantee
(a) The Guarantors hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee, jointly and severally, as principal obligors, and not merely as sureties, to Purchaser and its successors and permitted assigns, all Liabilities of the Sellers to Purchaser arising out of or related to this Agreement, including the indemnification obligations of the Company pursuant to Article VIII. Each Guarantor reserves the right to assert defenses that the applicable Seller may have or have had to payment or performance of any obligations guaranteed hereunder. The foregoing obligation of the Guarantors constitutes a continuing guaranty of payment and performance, and not of collection, and is and shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances, including circumstances that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor. The obligation of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be discharged, impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of Purchaser to assert any claim or demand against a Seller or to enforce any remedy hereunder, but shall be reduced by any amount paid by a Seller relating to an obligation guaranteed by the Guarantors hereunder.
(b) The Guarantors have the requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform their obligations hereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution, delivery and performance by the Guarantors of this Agreement and the consummation by the Guarantors of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all requisite entity action on the part of the Guarantors, and no other entity proceedings or approvals on the part of the Guarantors are necessary in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Guarantors and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery hereof by each other Party, constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first written above.
 
Bruce G. Paddock Revocable Trust U/A dated 2/21/02
Bruce G. Paddock 2001 Irrevocable Grantor Trust
Kristine J. Paddock 2002 Irrevocable Grantor Trust
Daralyn C. Paddock Irrevocable Qualified Subchapter S Trust
Ryan B. Paddock Irrevocable Qualified Subchapter S Trust
THIS NON-COMPETITION AGREEMENT (this "") is entered into on , 2011 by and between PERRIGO COMPANY, a Michigan corporation (together with its affiliates, ""), and Bruce Paddock (""). Each of Perrigo and Paddock may be referred to herein individually as a "" and collectively as the "".
Agreement
            
Perrigo
Paddock
Party
Parties
WHEREAS, Perrigo has entered into that certain Purchase Agreement (the "") with Paddock Laboratories, Inc. and Paddock Properties Limited Partnership ( the ""), pursuant to which the Sellers have agreed to sell, assign, transfer and deliver to Perrigo, and Perrigo has agreed to purchase, assume and accept, all the right, title and interest in, to and under the Transferred Assets, and Perrigo has agreed to assume all of the Transferred Liabilities (the "") (terms used and not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Purchase Agreement); and
Purchase Agreement
Sellers
Acquisition
WHEREAS, as a material inducement to Perrigo to consummate the Acquisition, Paddock has agreed to enter into this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of Perrigo acquiring the Transferred Assets and the receipt of consideration in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
1.
Non-Competition.
(a) Paddock shall not, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate or otherwise engage in a Competing Business that competes with (i) the Products during the , and (ii) the Business during the period commencing on the Closing Date and expiring on the second anniversary of the Closing Date.
Restricted Period
(b) Nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prohibit Paddock from: (i) beneficially and passively owning any stock (or other equity interest convertible into stock) of any corporation listed on a national securities exchange that invests in, manages or operates a Competing Business, in each case, provided that such stock (or stock obtained upon conversion of such other equity interests) represents less than five percent of the outstanding capital stock of such Person; (ii) acquiring (and thereafter continuing to own) all or a majority of the stock or assets of any Person that derived less than five percent of its annual consolidated revenues from a Competing Business during the calendar year immediately preceding the consummation of such acquisition; (iii) developing, manufacturing or selling active pharmaceutical ingredients primarily intended for incorporation into finished dose non-human pharmaceutical products; or (iv) owning any stock (or other equity interest convertible into stock) of, being a member of the board of directors of, or otherwise engaging in the business currently performed by, Amerilab Technologies, Inc., whose current business the Parties acknowledge is limited to the development or contract manufacturing of (v) ranitidine, (w) generic versions of Airborne, (x) branded over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, (y) nutritional products and (z) effervescent products.
2. . During the Restricted Period, Paddock shall not directly or indirectly, solicit, influence, entice or encourage, any Continuing Employee who at such time is an employee of Perrigo, or any current customer of the Business who at such time is a customer of Perrigo, to cease or curtail his, her, or its relationship with Perrigo; , , that the foregoing provision shall not preclude Paddock and his affiliates from the placement of general advertisements or the use of general search firm services that are not targeted directly or indirectly toward employees or customers of Perrigo.
Non-Solicitation
provided
however
3.
Remedies.
(a) The Parties recognize that irreparable harm would result from any breach by Paddock of any restrictive covenant contained in this Agreement and that monetary damages alone would not provide adequate relief for any such breach. Accordingly, in addition to any other remedy that may be available to Perrigo, if Paddock breaches a restrictive covenant contained in this Agreement, the parties acknowledge that injunctive relief in favor of Perrigo is proper (without the requirement of posting a bond or other security).
(b) The Parties acknowledge that the agreements herein are reasonable in all respects and necessary for the protection of Perrigo, and Paddock acknowledges that Perrigo's willingness to enter into the Purchase Agreement is expressly conditioned on Paddock's undertaking and complying with the agreements in this Agreement. Accordingly, Paddock shall be bound by the restrictive covenants in this Agreement to the maximum extent permitted by Law, it being the intent and spirit of the Parties that the foregoing shall be fully enforceable. In the event that any covenant contained in Sections 1 and 2 should ever be adjudicated to exceed the time, geographic, product or service or other limitations permitted by applicable Law in any jurisdiction, then such adjudicating court is expressly empowered to reform such covenant, and such covenant shall be deemed reformed, in such jurisdiction to the maximum time, geographic, product, service and/or other limitations, as applicable, permitted by applicable Law. The covenants contained in Sections 1 and 2 and each provision thereof are severable and distinct covenants and provisions. The invalidity or unenforceability of any such covenant or provision as written shall not invalidate or render unenforceable the remaining covenants or provisions hereof, and any such invalidity or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such covenant or provision in any other jurisdiction.
4.
Governing Law; Consent to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial.
(a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
(b) EACH PARTY HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY, INTENTIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT WHICH SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY PROCEEDING, LITIGATION OR COUNTERCLAIM BASED ON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY. IF THE SUBJECT MATTER OF ANY LAWSUIT IS ONE IN WHICH THE WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL IS PROHIBITED, NO PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT SHALL PRESENT, AS A NON-COMPULSORY COUNTERCLAIM IN ANY SUCH LAWSUIT, ANY CLAIM BASED ON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. FURTHERMORE, NO PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT SHALL SEEK TO CONSOLIDATE ANY SUCH ACTION IN WHICH A JURY TRIAL CANNOT BE WAIVED.
(C) EACH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT LOCATED WITHIN THE STATE OF NEW YORK OVER ANY DISPUTE ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY AND SUCH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF SUCH DISPUTE OR ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING RELATED THERETO MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH COURTS. EACH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION WHICH HE, SHE OR IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUCH DISPUTE BROUGHT IN SUCH COURT OR ANY DEFENSE OF INCONVENIENT FORUM FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH DISPUTE. EACH OF THE PARTIES AGREES THAT A JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH DISPUTE MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW.
(D) EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY CONSENTS TO PROCESS BEING SERVED BY ANY PARTY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING BY THE MAILING OF A COPY THEREOF IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5.
All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon (a) personal delivery, (b) transmitter's confirmation of receipt of a facsimile transmission, (c) confirmed delivery by a standard overnight carrier of national reputation or when delivered by hand or (d) when mailed in the United States by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed at the following addresses (or to such other address as a Party may have specified by notice delivered as required under this provision):
5. Notices.
If to the Perrigo, to:
      Perrigo Company
      515 Eastern Avenue
      Allegan, MI 49010
      Attention: Todd W. Kingma
      Facsimile: (269) 673-1386
 
6. . This Agreement is not intended to, and does not, confer upon any Person other than the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns any rights or remedies.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries
7. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns. No assignment of this Agreement or of any rights or obligations hereunder may be made by either the Perrigo or Paddock (by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other Party and any attempted assignment without the required consents shall be void; provided, that Perrigo may assign any of its rights (but not its obligations) to any direct or indirect subsidiary of Perrigo.
Assignment; Binding Effect.
8. This Agreement represents the entire understanding and agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and can be amended, supplemented or changed, and any provision hereof can be waived, only by written instrument making specific reference to this Agreement signed by the Party against whom enforcement of any such amendment, supplement, modification or waiver is sought. The waiver by any Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a further or continuing waiver of such breach or as a waiver of any other or subsequent breach. No failure on the part of any Party to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of such right, power or remedy by such Party preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies provided in this Agreement are the only remedies available to the Parties in connection with this Agreement.
Entire Agreement, Amendment and Waivers.
9. If any provision of this Agreement or portion thereof is held to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision or portion thereof shall be deemed amended as necessary to make it valid and enforceable while retaining as best as possible its original meaning and intent, and the balance of this Agreement shall remain in effect.
Severability.
10. This Agreement may be executed and delivered in two or more counterparts (including by electronic transmission), each of which will be deemed to be an original copy of this Agreement and all of which, when taken together, will be deemed to constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts; Facsimile Signatures.
11. The section headings of this Agreement are for reference purposes only and are to be given no effect in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party hereto has executed this Agreement, or caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized representative, as of the date first written above.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
SCHEDULES
Schedule 2.01  Term Loan Commitments
Schedule 3.06  Disclosed Matters  Litigation and Environmental Matters
Schedule 3.07  Disclosed Matters  Compliance with Laws and Agreements
Schedule 6.01  Existing Indebtedness
Schedule 6.02  Existing Liens
Schedule 6.04  Existing Investments, Loans and Advances
Schedule 6.08  Existing Restrictions
:
EXHIBITS
Exhibit A  Form of Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit B  Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement
Exhibit C  Note
This TERM LOAN AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of January 20, 2011, is among PERRIGO COMPANY, the LENDERS party hereto, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
The parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"", when used in reference to any Term Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Term Loan, or the Term Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means any transaction, or any series of related transactions, consummated on or after the date of this Agreement, by which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) acquires any going business or all or substantially all of the assets of any firm, corporation or limited liability company, or division thereof, whether through purchase of assets, merger or otherwise or (ii) directly or indirectly acquires (in one transaction or as the most recent transaction in a series of transactions) at least a majority (in number of votes) of the Equity Interests of a Person.
Acquisition
"" means, an interest rate per annum equal to the sum of (i) 1.00% per annum plus (ii) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day); that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Adjusted LIBO Rate for any day shall be based on the rate appearing on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or on any successor or substitute page) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time on such day (without any rounding).
Adjusted One Month LIBOR Rate
provided
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means JPMorgan, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the Administrative Agent and the Syndication Agents.
Agents
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Term Loan Commitments of all Lenders at such time.
Aggregate Term Loan Commitments
 
"" means, at any time, the sum of the Term Loans of all Lenders at such time.
Aggregate Term Loans
"" or "" means the highest of (i) the Prime Rate, (ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.50% and (iii) the Adjusted One Month LIBOR Rate. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted One Month LIBOR Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Adjusted One Month LIBOR Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
ABR
"" is defined in Section 2.02(d).
Applicable Lending Installation
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments represented by such Lender's Term Loan Commitments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan or ABR Loan, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Applicable Margin" based upon the Leverage Ratio as of the most recent determination date:
Applicable Rate
 
The Applicable Rate shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Leverage Ratio as determined in the then most recent quarterly financial statements for the first three Fiscal Quarters of each Fiscal Year and the audited year end financial statements for the last Fiscal Quarter (in each case calculated on a trailing four quarter basis) of the Borrower. Adjustments, if any, to the Applicable Rate shall be effective five business days after the Administrative Agent is scheduled to receive the applicable financials under Section 5.01(a) or (b) and certificate under Section 5.01(c). If the Borrower fails to deliver the financials to the Administrative Agent at the time required hereunder, then the Applicable Rate shall be set at Level 1 until five days after such financials are so delivered. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Applicable Rate shall be set at Level 2 as of the Effective Date and shall be adjusted for the first time based on the financials for the Fiscal Quarter ending March 26, 2011.
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 9.04.
Approved Fund
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
 
"" means: (1) with respect to a corporation, the board of directors of the corporation or such directors or committee serving a similar function; (2) with respect to a limited liability company, the board of managers of the company or such managers or committee serving a similar function; (3) with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership; and (4) with respect to any other Person, the managers, directors, trustees, board or committee of such Person or its owners serving a similar function.
Board of Directors
"" means Perrigo Company, a Michigan corporation, and its successors.
Borrower
"" means all of the Term Loans or portions thereof of the same Type made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City or Chicago are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in deposits in the currency in which such Eurocurrency Loan is denominated in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" means (i) the membership of the Borrower's Board of Directors changes by more than 50% during any 12-month period, or the number of members on the Borrower's Board of Directors either increases or decreases by more than 50% during any 12 month period, or (ii) any person or group or persons (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall obtain ownership or control in one or more series of transactions of more than 35% of the common Equity Interests or 35% of the voting power of the Equity Interests of the Borrower entitled to vote in the election of members of the Board of Directors of the Borrower.
Change in Control
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.12(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
"" means the date on or after the Effective Date on which the Term Loans are advanced hereunder, subject to the satisfaction of the terms and conditions set forth in Section 4.02.
Closing Date
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means, collectively, the "Collateral" under and as defined in, and any other assets upon which a Lien has been granted by, any of the Collateral Documents.
Collateral
 
"" means, collectively, the Intercreditor Agreement, all pledge and security agreements and all other agreements or documents granting or perfecting a Lien in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lenders or otherwise providing support for the Secured Obligations at any time, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and as amended or modified from time to time.
Collateral Documents
"" means, with reference to any period, the net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such period, , to the extent deducted from revenues in determining such net income, without duplication, (i) Consolidated Interest Expense, (ii) expense for income taxes paid or accrued, (iii) extraordinary non-cash losses incurred other than in the ordinary course of business, and (iv) losses incurred other than in the ordinary course of business that are non-cash, non-operating and non-recurring, to the extent included in such net income, (a) extraordinary non-cash gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business, and (b) gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business that are non-cash, non-operating and non-recurring, all as determined in accordance with GAAP and calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated EBIT
plus
minus,
"" means, with reference to any period, the Consolidated EBIT for such period, , to the extent deducted from revenues in determining such Consolidated EBIT, depreciation and amortization expense, all as determined in accordance with GAAP and calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
"" means at any time the Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis.
Consolidated Indebtedness
"" means, with reference to any period, the Interest Expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period, including without limitation all financing costs in connection with a Permitted Securitization Transaction.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, as of any date, the total assets of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries, determined in accordance with GAAP, as set forth on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower as of such date.
Consolidated Total Assets
"" means, as of any date, the Consolidated Total Assets as of such date, less all goodwill and intangible assets determined in accordance with GAAP included in such Consolidated Total Assets.
Consolidated Total Tangible Assets
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means any Lender with respect to which a Lender Default is in effect.
Defaulting Lender
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06 and Schedule 3.07.
Disclosed Matters
"" means any Equity Interest that, by its terms (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable), or upon the happening of any event, matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise, or redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part.
Disqualified Stock
 
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" means, on any date of determination (a) with respect to any amount in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount in any Foreign Currency, the equivalent in Dollars of such amount, determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 1.05 using the Exchange Rate with respect to such Foreign Currency at the time in effect under the provisions of such Section.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means any Subsidiary that is not a Foreign Subsidiary.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02).
Effective Date
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
" " means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest.
Equity Interests
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) any failure by any Plan to satisfy the "minimum funding standard" (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) applicable to such Plan, whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(c) of the Code or Section 302(c) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) a determination that any Plan is, or is expected to be, in "at-risk" status (as defined in Section 430(i)(4) of the Code or Section 303(i)(4) of ERISA); (e) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (f) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (g) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (h) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA, or is in endangered or critical status, within the meaning of Section 432 of the Code or Section 305 of ERISA.
ERISA Event
 
"", when used in reference to any Term Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Term Loan, or the Term Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurocurrency
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
"" means on any day, for purposes of determining the Dollar Equivalent of any currency other than Dollars, the rate at which such currency may be exchanged into Dollars at the time of determination on such day on the Reuters Currency pages, if available, for such currency. In the event that such rate does not appear on any Reuters Currency pages, the Exchange Rate shall be determined by reference to such other publicly available service for displaying exchange rates as may be agreed upon by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, or, in the absence of such an agreement, such Exchange Rate shall instead be the arithmetic average of the spot rates of exchange of the Administrative Agent in the market where its foreign currency exchange operations in respect of such currency are then being conducted, at or about such time as the Administrative Agent shall elect after determining that such rates shall be the basis for determining the Exchange Rate, on such date for the purchase of Dollars for delivery two Business Days later; that if at the time of any such determination, for any reason, no such spot rate is being quoted, the Administrative Agent may use any reasonable method it deems appropriate to determine such rate, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Exchange Rate
provided
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the State of the United States of America or other jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.16(b)), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.14(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.14(a).
Excluded Taxes
"" is defined in Section 2.09(a).
Facility Fee
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower or other officer acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Financial Officer
"" means (i) as of the Effective Date, each period of 13 weeks during a Fiscal Year ending on a Saturday (with the first such Fiscal Quarter to commence on the first day of such Fiscal Year) and (ii) upon and after such time, if any, as the Borrower adopts a Fiscal Year as set forth in clause (ii) of the defined term "Fiscal Year", any of the quarterly accounting periods of the Borrower, ending on such dates of each year elected by the Borrower, provided that such dates are reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and do not result in the financial covenants in Section 6.10 or 6.11 not being tested for more than three months.
Fiscal Quarter
"" means a (i) as of the Effective Date, any 52-week or 53-week period beginning on the Sunday nearest to June 30 and ending on the Saturday nearest to the following June 30. References to a Fiscal Year with a number corresponding to any calendar year (e.g., "2011 Fiscal Year") refer to the Fiscal Year ending on the Saturday nearest to the June 30 of such calendar year and (ii) upon the election of the Borrower, any of the annual accounting periods of the Borrower ending on any other date of each year elected by the Borrower, provided that such date is reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and does not result in the financial covenants in Section 6.10 or 6.11 not being tested for more than three months.
Fiscal Year
"" means any currency other than Dollars.
Foreign Currency
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means any Subsidiary that is incorporated or organized under the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (except with respect to businesses outside the United States acquired in Acquisitions for periods prior to the date of the Acquisition).
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
 
"" means each Person required to execute a Guaranty pursuant to Section 2.17.
Guarantor
"" means each guaranty or similar agreement executed by any of the Guarantors and Guaranteeing the Obligations, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Guaranty
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money or similar obligations, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, acceptances, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances, (k) all obligations (based on the net mark-to-market amount) under Swap Agreements of such Person that relate to interest rates, (l) all Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities of such Person, and (m) all obligations under any Disqualified Stock of such Person. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum relating to the Borrower and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
"" means the Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement dated as of May 29, 2008 among the Secured Parties (as defined therein, and including JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent for the 2005 Revolving Credit Lenders (as defined therein) and on behalf of each of the 2005 Revolving Credit Lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as the Administrative Agent for the 2008 Term Loan Lenders (as defined therein) and on behalf of each of the 2008 Term Loan Lenders, each of the holders of the 2008 Notes (as defined therein, and including the holders of the Series 2010 Notes (as defined in the First Amendment to the Intercreditor Agreement)), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as Collateral Agent for the Secured Parties, as amended by a First Amendment to Collateral Agency and Intercreditor Agreement dated as of April 30, 2010, and as further amended or modified from time to time, provided that any such further amendments or modifications thereto shall be in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Intercreditor Agreement
 
"" means, as of the end of any Fiscal Quarter of the Borrower, the ratio of Consolidated EBIT to Consolidated Interest Expense (excluding non-cash interest), as calculated for the four consecutive Fiscal Quarters of the Borrower then ending.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.05.
Interest Election Request
"" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the gross interest expense of such Person for such period on a consolidated basis, including without limitation (i) the amortization of debt discounts, (ii) the amortization of all fees (including fees with respect to Swap Agreements) payable in connection with the incurrence of Indebtedness to the extent included in interest expense, (iii) the portion of any payments or accruals with respect to Capital Lease Obligations allocable to interest expense and (iv) commissions, discounts, yield and other fees and charges incurred in connection with the asset securitization or similar transaction which are payable to any Person other than the Borrower or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary. For purposes of the foregoing, gross interest expense shall be determined after giving effect to any net payments made or received by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries with respect to Swap Agreements.
Interest Expense
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan and Facility Fee, the 15
Interest Payment Date
th
day of the month immediately following the last day of each March, June, September and December, and (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Eurocurrency Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period.
"" means (a) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, such other period requested by the Borrower) thereafter, as the Borrower may elect, , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, in their capacity as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners.
Joint Lead Arrangers
 
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association, and its successors.
JPMorgan
"" means an agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, with such changes thereto as approved by the Administrative Agent.
Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement
"" means (i) the refusal (which has not been retracted) of a Lender to make available its portion of any Borrowing, or (ii) a Lender having notified in writing the Borrower and/or the Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its obligations under Section 2.04.
Lender Default
"" means the Persons (including their Applicable Lending Installations) listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, reference to any Lender includes such Lender and its Applicable Lending Installations.
Lenders
"" means, as of the end of any Fiscal Quarter of the Borrower, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Indebtedness at such time to (b) Consolidated EBITDA, as calculated for the four consecutive Fiscal Quarters of the Borrower then ending.
Leverage Ratio
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Reuters Screen Page LIBOR01 (or on any successor or substitute page of Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for Reuters, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of Reuters, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities; provided that the filing of financing statements solely with respect to, or other lien or claim solely on, any interest in accounts or notes receivable which are sold or otherwise transferred in a Permitted Securitization Transaction shall not be considered a Lien and any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to any Equity Interests of the Borrower are not controlled by this Agreement.
Lien
"" means this Agreement, each Guaranty, the Paddock Acquisition Certificate, each Collateral Document, and all other instruments, agreements or documents executed in connection herewith at any time.
Loan Documents
"" means the Borrower or any Guarantor.
Loan Party
 
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and the Guarantors of the Loan Documents, the borrowing of Term Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof and all transactions related thereto.
Loan Transactions
"" means "margin stock" as defined in Regulations U and X of the Board as from time to time in effect.
Margin Stock
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, prospects or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under any Loan Document or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under any Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Term Loans), and/or Swap Agreement Obligations (based on the net mark-to-market amount) of any one or more of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding the Dollar Equivalent of $35,000,000.
Material Indebtedness
"" means the date five years after the Closing Date.
Maturity Date
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means all Subsidiaries other than Domestic Subsidiaries that are Guarantors.
Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries
"" means all unpaid principal of, accrued and unpaid interest and fees and reimbursement obligations on the Term Loans, all accrued and unpaid fees and all expenses, reimbursements, indemnities and other obligations of the Borrower to the Lenders, the Administrative Agent, any indemnified party or any of them arising under the Loan Documents, in all cases whether now existing or hereafter arising.
Obligations
"" of a Person means (i) any obligation under a sale and leaseback transaction which is not a Capital Lease Obligation, (ii) any so-called "synthetic lease" or "tax ownership operating lease" transaction entered into by such Person, (iii) the amount of obligations outstanding under the legal documents entered into as part of any asset securitization or similar transaction on any date of determination that would be characterized as principal if such asset securitization or similar transaction (including without limitation any Permitted Securitization Transaction) were structured as a secured lending transaction rather than as a purchase or (iv) any other transaction (excluding operating leases for purposes of this clause (iv)) which is the functional equivalent of or takes the place of borrowing but which does not constitute a liability on the balance sheet of such Person; in all of the foregoing cases, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the outstanding amount of any Off-Balance Sheet Liability shall be calculated based on the aggregate outstanding amount of obligations outstanding under the legal documents entered into as part of any such transaction on any date of determination that would be characterized as principal if such transaction were structured as a secured lending transaction, whether or not shown as a liability on a consolidated balance sheet of such Person, in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Off-Balance Sheet Liability
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
 
"" means Paddock Laboratories, Inc., a Minnesota corporation.
Paddock
"" means the Acquisition by the Borrower of the Paddock Purchased Assets pursuant to the Paddock Acquisition Documents, all on the terms and conditions set forth in the Paddock Acquisition Documents.
Paddock Acquisition
"" means that certain Purchase Agreement dated as of the date hereof among the Borrower, Paddock, Paddock Properties, and, solely for purposes of Section 11.15 thereof, the Persons listed on Exhibit A thereto.
Paddock Acquisition Agreement
"" means the certificate delivered pursuant to Section 4.02(c).
Paddock Acquisition Certificate
"" means the Paddock Acquisition Agreement and all other material agreements, documents and instruments executed in connection with the Paddock Acquisition.
Paddock Acquisition Documents
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Loan Parties of the Paddock Acquisition Documents to which it is a party, the Paddock Acquisition, and all transactions related thereto.
Paddock Acquisition Transactions
"" means Paddock Properties Limited Partnership, a Minnesota limited partnership.
Paddock Properties
"" means the assets (defined in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement as the "Transferred Assets") of Paddock and of Paddock Properties to be acquired by the Borrower under the Paddock Acquisition Agreement and the other Paddock Acquisition Documents.
Paddock Purchased Assets
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Participant
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
(a) Liens imposed by law for taxes, fees, assessments or other governmental charges that are not delinquent or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
(b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04;
(c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
(d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII;
(f) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; and
(g) statutory and contractual Liens in favor of landlord on real property leased by the Borrower or any Subsidiary; provided that, the Borrower or Subsidiary is current with respect to payment of all rent and other amounts due to such landlord under any lease of such real property, except where the failure to be current in payment would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
"" means:
Permitted Investments
(a) direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America (or by any agency or instrumentality thereof to the extent such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America), in each case maturing within two years from the date of acquisition thereof;
(b) investments in commercial paper maturing within 270 days from the date of acquisition thereof and having, at such date of acquisition, the highest or second highest credit rating obtainable from S&P or from Moody's;
(c) investments in certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances and time deposits maturing within 180 days from the date of acquisition thereof issued or guaranteed by or placed with, and money market deposit accounts issued or offered by, any domestic office of any Agent or Affiliate thereof or any other commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof which has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000;
(d) fully collateralized repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements with a term of not more than one year for securities described in clause (a) above and entered into with a financial institution satisfying the criteria described in clause (c) above;
(e) in the case of any Foreign Subsidiary, (i) marketable direct obligations issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed by, the sovereign nation in which such Foreign Subsidiary is organized and is conducting business or issued by any agency of such sovereign nation and backed by the full faith and credit of such sovereign nation, in each case maturing within one year from the date of acquisition, so long as such sovereign nation is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the ""), the indebtedness of such sovereign nation is rated at least A by S&P or A2 by Moody's or carries an equivalent rating from a comparable foreign rating agency or such sovereign nation is approved by the Administrative Agent for purposes of this clause (e), or (ii) investments of the type and maturity described in clauses (b) through (d) above of foreign obligors, which investments or obligors in the case of clause (b) above have ratings described in such clause or equivalent ratings from comparable foreign rating agencies, and which investments in the case of clauses (c) and (d) are with any office of any commercial bank that is (A) any Agent or Affiliate thereof, (B) organized under the laws of a member of the OECD or a state, province or territory thereof which has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $500,000,000, or (iii) approved by the Administrative Agent.
OECD
 
(f) money market funds that (i) comply with the criteria set forth in SEC Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, (ii) are rated AAA by S&P or Aaa by Moody's and (iii) have portfolio assets of at least $5,000,000,000;
(g) marketable direct obligations issued by any state of the United States or any political subdivision of any such state or any public instrumentality thereof maturing within one year from the date of acquisition thereof and, at the time of acquisition, having one of the two highest ratings obtainable from either S&P or Moody's;
(h) repurchase obligations with a term of not more than 30 days underlying securities of the types described in clause (a) above entered into with any bank meeting the qualifications specified in clause (c) above;
(i) "money market" preferred stock maturing within six months after issuance thereof or municipal bonds in each case issued by a corporation organized under the laws of any state of the United States, which has a rating of "A" or better by S&P or Moody's or the equivalent rating by any other nationally recognized rating agency;
(j) tax exempt floating rate option tender bonds backed by letters of credit issued by a national or state bank whose long-term unsecured debt has a rating of AA or better by S&P, Aa2 or better by Moody's or the equivalent rating by any other nationally recognized rating agency; and
(k) shares of any money market mutual fund rated as least AAA or the equivalent thereof by S&P, at least Aaa or the equivalent thereof by Moody's or any other mutual fund at least 95% of whose assets consist of the type specified in clauses (a) through (g) above.
"" means any asset securitization transaction (i) by a Securitization Entity, (ii) which is a sale or other transfer of an interest in accounts or notes receivable, and (iii) which is otherwise permitted by the terms of this Agreement and any other agreement binding on the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Permitted Securitization Transaction
"" means Perrigo International, Inc., a Michigan corporation, and its successors.
Perrigo International
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in Chicago; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
 
"" means any Acquisition, or the last to occur of a series of Acquisitions consummated within a period of six consecutive months, if the aggregate amount of Indebtedness incurred by one or more of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries to finance the purchase price of, or other consideration for, or assumed by one or more of them in connection with, such Acquisition is at least $100,000,000.
Qualified Acquisition
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04.
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Term Loans representing more than 50% of the Aggregate Term Loans at such time; provided, however, that so long as there are fewer than three Lenders (and any Lenders that are Affiliates shall be considered as one Lender for purposes of this definition), "Required Lenders" shall mean all Lenders. Any Defaulting Lender and its Term Loan shall be disregarded in determining Required Lenders at any time.
Required Lenders
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any Equity Interests in the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such Equity Interests in the Borrower or any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such Equity Interests in the Borrower.
Restricted Payment
"" means Standard & Poor's.
S&P
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" means all reports, schedules, forms, statements and other documents filed with the SEC by Borrower since January 1, 2010 and prior to the date of this Agreement.
SEC Documents
"" means, collectively, (i) the Obligations, and (ii) the Swap Agreement Obligations owing to one or more Lenders or their Affiliates.
Secured Obligations
"" means a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower that engages in no activities other than Permitted Securitization Transactions and any necessary related activities and owns no assets other than as required for Permitted Securitization Transactions and no portion of the Indebtedness (contingent or otherwise) of which is guaranteed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower or is recourse to or obligates the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower in any way, other than pursuant to customary representations, warranties, covenants, indemnities, performance guaranties and other obligations entered into in connection with a Permitted Securitization Transaction.
Securitization Entity
"" means Borrower's 5.97% Senior Notes, Series 2008-A, due May 29, 2015 issued in the original principal amount of $75,000,000, 6.37% Senior Notes, Series 2008-B, due May 29, 2018 issued in the original principal amount of $125,000,000, 4.91% Senior Notes, Series 2010-A, due April 30, 2017 issued in the original principal amount of $115,000,000, 5.45% Senior Notes, Series 2010-B, due April 30, 2020 issued in the original principal amount of $150,000,000 and 5.55% Senior Notes, Series 2010-C, due April 30, 2022 issued in the original principal amount of $150,000,000, as issued under the Master Note Purchase Agreement dated as of May 29, 2008 among the Borrower and the purchasers named therein, as supplemented by the First Supplement to Master Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2010 among the Borrower and the purchasers named therein.
Senior Notes
 
"" means any one or more Subsidiaries which, if considered in the aggregate as a single Subsidiary would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 , as amended.
Significant Subsidiary
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"" means any subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement.
Swap Agreement
provided
"" means any and all obligations of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, whether absolute or contingent and howsoever and whensoever created, arising, evidenced or acquired (including all renewals, extensions and modifications thereof and substitutions therefor) owing to any Lender or any of its Affiliates under any and all Swap Agreements.
Swap Agreement Obligations
"" means Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Bank of America, N.A., in their capacities as syndication agents for the Lenders hereunder.
Syndication Agents
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make a Term Loan, as such commitment may be reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to prepayments, Section 2.06 or assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The amount of each Lender's Term Loan Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01 (as it may be modified pursuant to Section 2.06), or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Term Loan Commitment, as applicable. After any Term Loan is made by any Lender under its Term Loan Commitment, the related Term Loan Commitment of such Lender shall be deemed equal to the outstanding principal amount of such Term Loan of such Lender. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Term Loan Commitments is $150,000,000.
Term Loan Commitment
"" means the term loans extended by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.01 hereof.
Term Loans
"" means the earliest to occur of (a) the date of termination of the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments pursuant to Article VII hereof, (b) the Closing Date (after the Term Loans are funded), (c) the date the Paddock Acquisition Agreement is terminated by any party thereto, and (d) the date 180 days after the Effective Date (which date shall be extended for an additional 90 day period in the event that any applicable review period in connection with, or any approval required pursuant to, any Antitrust Law (as defined in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement) has not ended or been received by the end of such 180 day period, in each case, so long as no party to the Paddock Acquisition Agreement is in default thereunder and all other conditions precedent to the Closing under and as defined in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement have been satisfied or, by their terms, are to be satisfied at the Closing under and as defined in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement.
Termination Date
"" means the Loan Transactions and the Paddock Acquisition Transactions.
Transactions
"" means the Term Loan Agreement dated April 22, 2008 among the Borrower, the Lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and RBS Citizens, N.A., as Syndication Agent, as it may from time to time be amended or otherwise modified, and any successor to or replacement of such agreement or the term loans evidenced thereby, as each such successor or replacement may from time to time be amended or otherwise modified, in each case, to the extent not prohibited hereby.
2008 Term Loan Agreement
"" means the Credit Agreement dated October 8, 2010 among the Borrower, certain Foreign Subsidiary Borrowers parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agents, and HSBC Bank USA, National Association, Fifth Third Bank and Bank Leumi USA, as Documentation Agents, as it may from time to time amended or otherwise modified, and any successor to or replacement of such agreement or the credit facilities evidenced thereby, as each such successor or replacement may from time to time be amended or otherwise modified, in each case, to the extent not prohibited hereby.
2010 Credit Agreement
"", when used in reference to the Term Loans or any portion thereof, refers to whether the rate of interest on the Term Loans or portion thereof is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" means, as to any Person, a subsidiary all of the Equity Interests of which (except directors' qualifying Equity Interests) are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person and/or another Wholly-Owned Subsidiary of such Person.
Wholly-Owned Subsidiary
 
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
SECTION 1.02. For purposes of this Agreement, Term Loans may be classified and referred to by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Loan").
Classification of Term Loans and Borrowings.
e.g.
SECTION 1.03. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally.
SECTION 1.04. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith. For purposes of calculating the Leverage Ratio (as used in Section 6.10 and in determining the Applicable Margin), the Interest Coverage Ratio, Consolidated Total Assets and Consolidated Total Tangible Assets, any Acquisition or any sale or other disposition outside the ordinary course of business by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries of any asset or group of related assets in one or a series of related transactions, the net proceeds from which exceed $10,000,000, including the incurrence of any Indebtedness and any related financing or other transactions in connection with any of the foregoing, occurring during the period for which such ratios are calculated shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day of the relevant period for which such ratios were calculated on a pro forma basis acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Accounting Terms; GAAP; Pro Forma Treatment
provided
SECTION 1.05. . For purposes of any determination under Section 6.01, 6.02, 6.04 or 6.09 or under Article VII, all amounts incurred, outstanding or proposed to be incurred or outstanding in currencies other than Dollars shall be translated into Dollars at the currency exchange rates in effect on the date of such determination; that no Default shall arise as a result of any limitation set forth in Dollars in Section 6.01 or 6.02 being exceeded solely as a result of changes in currency exchange rates from those rates applicable at the time or times Indebtedness or Liens were initially consummated in reliance on the exceptions under such Sections. For purposes of any determination under Section 6.04 or 6.09, the amount of each investment, asset disposition or other applicable transaction denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be translated into Dollars at the currency exchange rate in effect on the date such investment, disposition or other transaction is consummated. Such currency exchange rates shall be determined in good faith by the Borrower.
Foreign Currency Calculations
provided
 
SECTION 2.01. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make a Term Loan in Dollars to the Borrower on the Closing Date in an aggregate principal amount equal to such Lender's Term Loan Commitment on the Closing Date.
Term Loan Commitments
SECTION 2.02. . (a) The failure of any Lender to make its Term Loans required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Term Loan Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Term Loans as required hereunder.
Term Loans and Borrowings
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.11, each portion of the Term Loans shall be comprised of ABR Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to elect, convert or continue any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, each Lender at its option may make any ABR Loan or Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign office, branch or Affiliate of such Lender (an "Applicable Lending Installation") to make such Term Loan that has been designated by such Lender to the Administrative Agent. All terms of this Agreement shall apply to any such Applicable Lending Installation of such Lender and the Term Loans and any Notes issued hereunder executed in connection herewith shall be deemed held by each Lender for the benefit of any such Applicable Lending Installation. Each Lender may, by written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, designate replacement or additional Applicable Lending Installations through which Term Loans will be made by it and for whose account Term Loan payments are to be made. Each Lender will promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any event of which it has actual knowledge occurring after the date hereof which will entitle such Lender to compensation pursuant to Section 2.12 and will designate a different Applicable Lending Installation if such designation will avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such compensation and will not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender or contrary to its policies.
SECTION 2.03. . To request the initial Term Loan Borrowing to be made on the Effective Date or any subsequent Term Loan under Section 2.06 in connection with an increase in the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., Chicago time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., Chicago time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Term Loan Borrowings
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day; and
 
(iii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by clause (a) of the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
If no election as to the Type of Term Loan Borrowing is specified, then the requested Term Loan Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Term Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. . (a) Each Lender shall make each Term Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, Chicago time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Term Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent in such location determined by the Administrative Agent.
Funding of Borrowings
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand (without duplication) such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (in the case of a Borrowing denominated in Dollars) or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Term Loan included in such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.05. . (a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Term Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Term Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. Each portion of the Term Loan elected at any time to be of the same Type shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of the applicable $1,000,000 and not less than $3,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; provided that there shall not at any time be more than a total of ten Eurocurrency Borrowings outstanding.
Interest Elections
 
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by clause (a) of the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender to which such Interest Election Request relates of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the written request (including a request through electronic means) of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing, and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
SECTION 2.06. (a) All Term Loan Commitments shall terminate on the Termination Date.
Termination and Increases of Term Loan Commitments.
 
(b) Subject to the conditions set forth below, the Borrower may, upon at least ten (10) days (or such other period of time agreed to between the Administrative Agent and the Borrower) prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, increase the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments at any time and from time to time after the Effective Date but prior to the Closing Date, either by designating a lender not theretofore a Lender to become a Lender (such designation to be effective only with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent which shall not be unreasonably withheld) or by agreeing with an existing Lender that such Lender's Term Loan Commitment shall be increased (thus increasing the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments); that:
provided
(i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing hereunder as of the effective date of such increase;
(ii) the representations and warranties made by the Borrower and contained in Article III shall be true and correct on and as of the effective date with the same effect as if made on and as of such date (other than those representations and warranties that by their terms speak as of a particular date, which representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such particular date);
(iii) the amount of any such increase in the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments shall not be less than $10,000,000, or greater than the aggregate amount (if any) separately agreed upon in writing among the Borrower and the Joint Lead Arrangers as of the date hereof;
(iv) The Borrower and the Lender or lender not theretofore a Lender, shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, a Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower;
(v) no existing Lender shall be obligated in any way to increase its Term Loan Commitment; and
(vi) the Borrower shall have complied with such other conditions in connection with such increase as may be required by the Administrative Agent.
(c) Upon the execution, delivery, acceptance and recording of the Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement, from and after the effective date specified in a Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement, such existing Lender shall have a Term Loan Commitment as therein set forth or such other Lender shall become a Lender with a Term Loan Commitment as therein set forth and all the rights and obligations of a Lender with such a Term Loan Commitment hereunder. Any such new Term Loan Commitments shall terminate at 5:00 p.m., Chicago time, on the date any such additional Term Loan is designated to be made thereunder.
(d) Upon its receipt of a Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement together with any note or notes, if requested, subject to such addition and assumption and the written consent to such addition and assumption, the Administrative Agent shall, if such Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement has been completed and the other conditions described in this Section 2.06 have been satisfied:
(i) accept such Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement;
(ii) record the information contained therein in the Register; and
(iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower and deliver to the Lenders a schedule reflecting the new Term Loan Commitments.
 
SECTION 2.07. (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the principal amount of the Term Loans in annual principal installments, each in the amount of 10% of the aggregate amount of all Term Loans that have been made hereunder (without giving effect to any payments or prepayments thereof) and payable on each one year anniversary of the Closing Date, and shall pay the remaining principal balance of the Term Loans on the Maturity Date.
Repayment of Term Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Term Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Term Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and the Interest Period (if any) applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) any amount received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; provided that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Term Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(e) Any Lender may request that Term Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in the form of Exhibit C hereto or such other form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Term Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
SECTION 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
Prepayment of Term Loans.
(b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., Chicago time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, and (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., Chicago time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.05. Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Term Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. All prepayments of the Term Loans shall be applied to principal installments on the Term Loans in the inverse order of maturity. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.10.
 
SECTION 2.09. . (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage and calculated for each such Lender for the period from and after the date 60 days after the date such Lender first becomes a Lender under this Agreement until the earlier of the Closing Date and the Termination Date, facility fees (the "Facility Fees") accruing at the per annum rate of 25 basis points on the Aggregate Term Loan Commitment. All such Facility Fees payable under this clause (a) shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Interest Payment Date and on the earlier of the Closing Date and the Termination Date.
Fees
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay to each Agent and Joint Lead Arranger for its own accounts fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and such Agent and Joint Lead Arranger. Such fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.10. (a) The portion of the Term Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate.
Interest.
(b) The portion of the Term Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Term Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due (after the expiration of any applicable grace or cure period), whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Term Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Term Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Accrued interest on each Term Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Term Loan; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Term Loan, accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Term Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.11. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
 
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Term Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective and such Borrowing shall be converted to or continued as on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto an ABR Borrowing, and (ii) if any Borrowing Request or Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing.
SECTION 2.12. (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs.
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or
(ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or any Term Loan made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Term Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Term Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
 
SECTION 2.13. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurocurrency Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.08(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.16, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Eurocurrency Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Eurocurrency Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for Dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments.
SECTION 2.14. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes.
provided
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
 
(e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
(f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.14, it shall pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.14 with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); provided, that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
SECTION 2.15. . (a) Unless otherwise specified, the Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or of amounts payable under Section 2.12, 2.13 or 2.14, or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., Chicago time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent to the applicable account designated to the Borrower by the Agent, except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.12, 2.13, 2.14 and 9.05 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in Dollars. Any payment required to be made by the Administrative Agent hereunder shall be deemed to have been made by the time required if the Administrative Agent shall, at or before such time, have taken the necessary steps to make such payment in accordance with the regulations or operating procedures of the clearing or settlement system used by the Administrative Agent to make such payment.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent from the Borrower to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due from the Borrower hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due from the Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due from the Borrower hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
 
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on its Term Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Term Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Term Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on its Term Loans; provided that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph (c) shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Term Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph (c) shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (in the case of an amount denominated in Dollars).
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(b), 2.15(d) or 9.03(c), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
SECTION 2.16. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.12, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Term Loan hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.12 or 2.14, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
 
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.12, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Term Loan, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.12 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.14, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
provided
SECTION 2.17. . (a) To guarantee or secure, as the case may be, the payment when due of the Secured Obligations, the Borrower shall cause each of the following to execute and deliver Guaranties to the Administrative Agent: (i) all Domestic Subsidiaries of the Borrower will Guarantee all Secured Obligations; and (ii) if it will not result in a material tax consequence (as reasonably agreed upon by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent), all Foreign Subsidiaries will Guarantee all Secured Obligations to the extent they are legally permitted to do so. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Securitization Entities shall not be required to be Guarantors.
Guaranties; Collateral
(b) If any Foreign Subsidiaries could not execute a Guaranty for all Secured Obligations because that Guaranty would result in a material adverse tax consequence (as reasonably agreed upon by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent), then the Administrative Agent reserves the right (i) to require that 65% (or such greater amount that may be pledged without a material adverse tax consequence) of the Equity Interests of such Foreign Subsidiaries that are owned directly by the Borrower or a Domestic Subsidiary be pledged pursuant to Collateral Documents satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and (ii) to require that 65% (or such greater amount that may be pledged without a material adverse tax consequence, as reasonably agreed upon by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent) of the Equity Interests of any other such Foreign Subsidiary be pledged pursuant to Collateral Documents satisfactory to the Administrative Agent to the extent such pledge is legally permitted and such pledge will not result in a material tax consequence (as reasonably agreed upon by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall not be obligated to cause certain Subsidiaries to deliver the Guaranties required under Section 2.17(a) above or cause the pledge of the Equity Interests of certain Foreign Subsidiaries required under Section 2.17(b) to the extent that all such Subsidiaries that have not delivered the Guaranties required under Section 2.17(a) above and all such Foreign Subsidiaries that are required to have their Equity Interests pledged under Section 2.17(b) have not had 65% or more of their Equity Interests pledged under Section 2.17(b) would not constitute a Significant Subsidiary if considered as one Subsidiary. In making such determination under this Section 2.17(c), the assets or income of any Subsidiary shall be determined using the consolidated assets and income of such Subsidiary and its subsidiaries.
(d) The Borrower agrees that it will promptly notify the Administrative Agent if any additional Guaranties or pledges of the Equity Interests of Foreign Subsidiaries are required at any time by the terms of Sections 2.17(a), (b) and (c) above (whether due to the formation or acquisition of any Subsidiary, any increase in the assets or income of any Subsidiary or due to any other reason that would require additional Guaranties or pledges of the Equity Interests of Foreign Subsidiaries under the terms of Sections 2.17(a), (b) and (c) above). The Borrower agrees that it will and will promptly cause each such Subsidiary to execute and deliver, promptly following the date that such Subsidiary becomes subject to the requirements of this clause (d), such additional Guaranties or Collateral Documents and other agreements, documents and instruments, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, sufficient to grant to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent, the Guaranties and Liens required by this Agreement and the Collateral Documents. The Borrower shall deliver, and cause each such Subsidiary to deliver, to the Administrative Agent all such certificates, legal opinions, share certificates and stock powers, lien searches, organizational and other charter documents, resolutions and other documents and agreements as the Administrative Agent may request in connection with any Guaranties or pledges of the Equity Interests of any Foreign Subsidiaries.
 
In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Agreement and to make the Loans and the other financial accommodations hereunder, the Borrower hereby represents and warrants as follows to each Lender and the Administrative Agent as of the Effective Date and as of the Closing Date (giving effect to the consummation of the Paddock Acquisition and the other Transactions):
SECTION 3.01. Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (or, if applicable in a foreign jurisdiction, enjoys the equivalent status under the laws of any jurisdiction of organization outside the United States) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers.
SECTION 3.02. The Transactions are within each Loan Party's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, stockholder, shareholder and other action. Each Loan Document has been duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party party thereto and assuming due execution and delivery by all parties other than the Loan Parties, constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Loan Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability.
SECTION 3.03. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect and except for those items described in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement that will be obtained after the Effective Date and prior to the Closing Date, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except to the extent such violation or default or Lien, could not, in the case of subparts (c) or (d) reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
 
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the Fiscal Year ended June 26, 2010, reported on by Ernst and Young LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the Fiscal Quarter and the portion of the Fiscal Year ended September 25, 2010, certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, except as may be indicated in the notes thereto and subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
(b) Since June 26, 2010, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations, prospects or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
SECTION 3.05. (a) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except where such failure to have good title or valid leasehold interests could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. None of the assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is subject to any Lien other than Liens permitted under Section 6.02.
Properties.
(b) Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.06. (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters and as set forth in the SEC Documents) or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions.
Litigation and Environmental Matters.
(b) Except as set forth in the SEC Documents and the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
(c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in, or materially increased the likelihood of, a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.07. Except as set forth in the SEC Documents and the Disclosed Matters, each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements.
 
SECTION 3.08. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status.
SECTION 3.09. Except as set forth in the Disclosed Matters, each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries has timely (after taking into account all available extensions) filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
SECTION 3.10. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Each of the Borrower, the Subsidiaries and the ERISA Affiliates is in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA and the provisions of the Code relating to Plans and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder and any similar applicable non-U.S. law, except for such noncompliance that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The excess of the present value of all benefit liabilities under each Plan of the Borrower, the Subsidiaries and the ERISA Affiliates (based on those assumptions used to fund such Plan), as of the last annual valuation date applicable thereto for which a valuation is available, over the value of the assets of such Plan could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and the excess of the present value of all benefit liabilities of all underfunded Plans (based on those assumptions used to fund each such Plan) as of the last annual valuation dates applicable thereto for which valuations are available, over the value of the assets of all such underfunded Plans could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is in compliance (i) with all applicable provisions of law and all applicable regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to any employee pension benefit plan or other employee benefit plan governed by the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States and (ii) with the terms of any such plan, except, in each case, for such noncompliance that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA.
SECTION 3.11. The Borrower has disclosed to the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions known to the Borrower to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Information Memorandum nor any of the other reports, financial statements, certificates or other information furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading in any material respect; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
Disclosure.
provided
SECTION 3.12 . The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Term Loans for solely to finance the Paddock Acquisition and the transaction costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith and herewith. Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries extends or maintains, in the ordinary course of business, credit for the purpose, whether immediate, incidental, or ultimate, of buying or carrying Margin Stock, and no part of the proceeds of any Term Loan will be used in any manner that is in violation of any applicable law or regulation (including without limitation Regulations U or X of the Board). After applying the proceeds of each Term Loan, Margin Stock will not constitute more than 25% of the value of the assets (either of the Borrower alone or of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) that are subject to any provisions of this Agreement that may cause the Term Loans to be deemed secured, directly or indirectly, by Margin Stock.
Use of Term Loans
 
SECTION 3.13 . There are no labor controversies pending or, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, threatened against the Borrower or any Subsidiary, which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Labor Matters
SECTION 3.14 . The Transactions are permitted under each of the Senior Notes, the 2010 Credit Agreement and the 2008 Term Loan Agreement, without any amendment, waiver or other modification or supplement thereto, except for the Intercreditor Agreement notice described below. The Term Loans will qualify as an "Additional Permitted Secured Debt Tranche" under the Intercreditor Agreement with a "Permitted Limit" under the Intercreditor Agreement of an amount equal to the aggregate Term Loan Commitments of all Lenders as of the Closing Date after a notice is delivered to the other Secured Parties (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) in accordance with the notice procedures under the Intercreditor Agreement at least fifteen Business Days, but not more than thirty Business Days, prior to the Closing Date, and no Secured Party shall have responded with a notice in accordance with the notice procedures under the Intercreditor Agreement within ten Business Days from receipt of such notice stating that an Event of Default (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) exists or that such specified Permitted Limit would cause an Event of Default (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement).
Intercreditor and other Agreements
SECTION 4.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Effective Date.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each Lender and Loan Party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement and the Guaranty to which it is a party signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement and the Guaranty to which it is a party signed on behalf of such party.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received the favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of counsel for the Borrower and the Guarantors in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and covering such other matters relating to the Borrower and the Guarantors, this Agreement, the Guaranty or the Loan Transactions as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request. The Borrower hereby requests such counsels to deliver such opinions.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Loan Parties, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Loan Parties, this Agreement, the Guaranty or the Loan Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
 
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received the Paddock Acquisition Agreement and the other Paddock Acquisition Documents in existence as of the Effective Date.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced by the relevant Person, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder on the Effective Date.
(f) The Loan Parties shall have delivered such other documents as the Administrative Agent, any Lender or their respective counsel may have reasonably requested.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
SECTION 4.02. . The Lenders shall not be required to make any of the Term Loans until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02):
Closing Date
(a) Evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent shall have been received by the Administrative Agent that (i) all conditions precedent to the consummation of the Paddock Acquisition have been satisfied or waived (in accordance with Section 4.02(c)) and all of the representations and warranties in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement are accurate in all material respects as of the time of the Paddock Acquisition is consummated; (ii) the Paddock Acquisition has been approved by all necessary corporate action of the Borrower's and Paddock's respective Boards of Directors and shareholders, as applicable; (iii) all required approvals of any Governmental Authority related to the Paddock Acquisition have been obtained and all related filings made and any applicable waiting periods shall have expired or been terminated; (v) the Closing Date shall occur prior to the Termination Date, and (vi) upon the funding of the Term Loans the Paddock Acquisition shall be consummated in accordance with the Paddock Acquisition Documents, including without limitation the release of all Liens on any of the Paddock Purchased Assets (other than the Liens listed on Schedule 6.02 with respect to the Paddock Purchased Assets to remain in effect on and after the Closing Date) and the payment of the Estimated Debt Amount (as defined in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement).
(b) A notice shall have been delivered to the Secured Parties (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) in accordance with the notice procedures under the Intercreditor Agreement at least fifteen Business Days, but not more than thirty Business Days, prior to the Closing Date, designating the Term Loans as an "Additional Permitted Secured Debt Tranche" under the Intercreditor Agreement with a "Permitted Limit" under the Intercreditor Agreement of an amount equal to the aggregate Term Loan Commitments of all Lenders as of the Closing Date, and no Secured Party shall have responded with a notice in accordance with the notice procedures under the Intercreditor Agreement within ten Business Days from receipt of such notice stating that an Event of Default (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) exists or that such specified Permitted Limit would cause an Event of Default (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement).
(c) The Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent copies of all amendments, supplements, waivers, consents and other modifications under the Paddock Acquisition Documents after the Effective Date and any additional Paddock Acquisition Documents after the Effective Date, and without the prior written consent of the Agents there shall have been no amendment, supplement, waiver, consent or other modification of any term or provision of the Paddock Acquisition Documents or any additional Paddock Acquisition Documents to the extent that any of the foregoing would be materially adverse to the Borrower, any Subsidiaries, the Agents or the Lenders, as determined by the Agents.
 
(d) A certificate, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agents, signed by a Financial Officer, stating that on the Closing Date all conditions in this Section 4.02 are satisfied and that simultaneously with the funding of the Term Loans the Borrower will own, free and clear of all Liens other than those allowed hereunder, all of the Paddock Purchased Assets and shall have otherwise completed the Paddock Acquisition in accordance in all material respects with the Paddock Acquisition Documents and in accordance in all material respects with all laws, rules and regulations, whether foreign or domestic, and all orders or other determinations of any Governmental Authority.
(e) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each Loan Party hereto a counterpart of each Loan Document not previously delivered to which it is a party signed on behalf of such party.
(f) All legal (including tax implications) and regulatory matters relating to the Transactions shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Joint Lead Arrangers.
(g) Each Lender shall have executed and delivered to the Collateral Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement an appropriately completed Joinder Agreement (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement).
(h) The representations and warranties of the Loan Parties set forth in the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects (except that any representation or warranty which is already qualified as to materiality or by reference to Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct in all respects) at the time of and immediately after giving effect to the funding of the Term Loans, except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date.
(i) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to the funding of the Term Loans, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(j) No "Material Adverse Effect" (as defined in the Paddock Acquisition Agreement) has occurred.
(k) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate from a Financial Officer concerning the solvency and other appropriate factual information with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent with respect to solvency.
(l) The Loan Parties shall have delivered such other certificates, opinions and documents as the Administrative Agent, any Lender or their respective counsel may have reasonably requested.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Closing Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Term Loans hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied prior to the Termination Date (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Term Loan Commitments shall terminate on the Termination Date). The disbursement of each Term Loan shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this Section and that all other applicable conditions in Section 4.01 and 4.02 are satisfied.
 
Until the Term Loan Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Term Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent:
Financial Statements; Ratings Change and Other Information.
(a) within 90 days (or such earlier date as the Borrower may be required to file its applicable annual report on Form 10-K by the rules and regulations of the SEC) after the end of each Fiscal Year of the Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous Fiscal Year, all reported on by Ernst and Young LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto);
(b) within 45 days (or such earlier date as the Borrower may be required to file its applicable quarterly report on Form 10-Q by the rules and regulations of the SEC) after the end of each of the first three Fiscal Quarters of each Fiscal Year of the Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such Fiscal Quarter and the then elapsed portion of the Fiscal Year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous Fiscal Year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.10 and 6.11 and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
(d) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) above, a certificate of the accounting firm that reported on such financial statements stating whether they obtained knowledge during the course of their examination of such financial statements of any Default (which certificate may be limited to the extent required by accounting rules or guidelines);
 
(e) promptly after Moody's or S&P shall have announced a change in the rating established or deemed to have been established for the Index Debt, written notice of such rating change; and
(f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section 5.01 shall be deemed to have been delivered if such information, or one or more annual or quarterly reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Lenders have been granted access or such reports shall be available on the website of the SEC at http://www.sec.gov or on the Borrower's website at http://www.perrigo.com. Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent.
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events.
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $5,000,000; and
(d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things reasonably necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.03.
Existence; Conduct of Business.
provided
SECTION 5.04. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations.
 
SECTION 5.05. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted (except for disposition of assets permitted under this Agreement), and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations.
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance; Accounts.
SECTION 5.06. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested. The Borrower will take all action required by the Administrative Agent to permit the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to rely on its annual audit. Except as specified in the definitions of Fiscal Quarters and Fiscal Year, the Borrower will not change its Fiscal Quarters or Fiscal Year.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights.
SECTION 5.07. The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws.
SECTION 5.08. . The proceeds of the Term Loans will be used solely to finance the Paddock Acquisition and the transaction costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith and herewith. No part of the proceeds of any Term Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose or in any manner that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X.
Use of Proceeds
SECTION 5.09. . If at any time the Borrower, any Guarantor or any Foreign Subsidiary that is required to have 65% or more of the Equity Interests pledged under Section 2.17 shall enter into or be a party to any instrument or agreement, including all such instruments or agreements in existence as of the date hereof and all such instruments or agreements entered into after the date hereof, relating to or amending any provisions applicable to any of its Indebtedness which in the aggregate, together with any related Indebtedness, exceeds $50,000,000, which includes financial covenants or the equivalent thereof not substantially provided for in this Agreement or more favorable to the lender or lenders thereunder than those provided for in this Agreement, then the Borrower shall promptly so advise the Administrative Agent and the Lenders. If the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall request, upon notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall enter into an amendment to this Agreement or an additional agreement (as the Administrative Agent may request), providing for substantially the same financial covenants or the equivalent thereof as those provided for in such instrument or agreement to the extent required and as may be selected by the Administrative Agent.
Additional Covenants
 
Until the Term Loan Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Term Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01. . The Borrower will not permit any Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Non-Guarantor Subsidiary Indebtedness
(a) Indebtedness created hereunder;
(b) Indebtedness existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.01 and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
(c) Indebtedness resulting from loans permitted by Section 6.04(d);
(d) Indebtedness pursuant to Permitted Securitization Transactions provided that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Indebtedness under all Permitted Securitization Transactions of all Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries and of the Borrower and all of its other Subsidiaries shall not exceed $250,000,000; and
(e) other Indebtedness in an aggregate amount not exceed an amount equal to 10% of Consolidated Total Tangible Assets.
Section 6.02 . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except:
Liens
(a) Permitted Encumbrances;
(b) Liens on any property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.02; that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof, as reduced from time to time;
provided
(c) Precautionary UCC filings with respect to operating leases of the Borrower or any Domestic Subsidiary;
(d) Liens on assets of Subsidiaries solely in favor of the Borrower or a Guarantor as secured party and securing Indebtedness owing by a Subsidiary to the Borrower or a Guarantor;
 
(e) Liens on the Collateral securing, on a pro rata basis, the Secured Obligations hereunder, the "Secured Obligations" as defined in the 2010 Credit Agreement (provided that the aggregate principal amount outstanding thereunder shall not exceed $700,000,000, as reduced from time to time), the "Secured Obligations" as defined in the 2008 Term Loan Agreement (provided that the aggregate principal amount outstanding thereunder shall not exceed $200,000,000, as reduced from time to time), the Indebtedness under the Senior Notes (provided that the aggregate principal amount outstanding thereunder shall not exceed $615,000,000, as reduced from time to time) and the other obligations defined as "Secured Obligations" under the Intercreditor Agreement, all subject to the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement and the other Collateral Documents and related agreements governing the pro rata sharing of the Collateral and other rights and terms with respect to the Collateral (and the Administrative Agent is authorized by each Lender to execute the Intercreditor Agreement and such other Collateral Documents and related agreements on behalf of each such Lender (including without limitation such joinders, amendments and supplements thereto) to implement such Liens and pro rata sharing of the Collateral and other rights and terms as determined by the Administrative Agent);
(f) Liens in favor of JPMorgan on cash collateral securing the obligations of a "Defaulting Lender" as defined in the 2010 Credit Agreement to fund risk participations under the 2010 Credit Agreement;
(g) Liens (in addition to the Liens permitted above in this Section 6.02) on assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries securing indebtedness in the aggregate less than an amount equal to 5% of Consolidated Total Tangible Assets, provided that such Liens assumed or created in connection with an Acquisition after the Effective Date may secure Indebtedness in an aggregate amount of up to $25,000,000 in excess of 5% of Consolidated Total Tangible Assets for a period of time not to exceed 60 days after any such Acquisition; and
(h) Liens (in addition to the Liens permitted above in this Section 6.02) on assets of the Borrower's Foreign Subsidiaries assumed or created in connection with an Acquisition after the Effective Date and securing Indebtedness in the aggregate less than an amount equal to 10% of Consolidated Total Tangible Assets, provided that such Liens may secure Indebtedness in an aggregate amount of up to $25,000,000 in excess of 10% of Consolidated Total Tangible Assets for a period of time not to exceed 60 days after any such Acquisition.
SECTION 6.03. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing (i) any Person may merge into the Borrower in a transaction in which the Borrower is the surviving corporation, (ii) any Person may merge into any Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary, (iii) any Subsidiary may sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary and (iv) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Borrower determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders; that any such merger involving a Person that is not a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger shall not be permitted unless also permitted by Section 6.04.
Fundamental Changes
provided
SECTION 6.04. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with any Person that was not a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary prior to such merger) any Equity Interests, evidences of indebtedness or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) of, make or permit to exist any loans or advances to, Guarantee any obligations of, or make or permit to exist any investment or any other interest in, any other Person, or make any Acquisition, except:
Investments, Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Acquisitions
 
(a) Permitted Investments;
(b) Investments, loans and advances existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.04 and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding amount thereof, as reduced from time to time;
(c) Investments in a Securitization Entity in connection with Permitted Securitization Transactions and in an aggregate outstanding amount acceptable to the Administrative Agent and required to consummate the Permitted Securitization Transactions plus accounts or notes receivable permitted to be transferred to a Securitization Entity in connection with Permitted Securitization Transactions;
(d) Investments, loans or advances made by (i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any Domestic Subsidiary that is a Guarantor or (ii) any Foreign Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor to any Subsidiary;
(e) Acquisitions, provided that: (i) before and after giving pro forma effect thereto (as of the end of the most recently ended Fiscal Quarter of the Borrower), no Default exists or would be caused thereby and (ii) if such Acquisition involves the acquisition of Equity Interests, the consummation of such Acquisition has been recommended by the Board of Directors and management of the target of such Acquisition;
(f) Guarantees (i) by the Borrower or any Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Domestic Subsidiary that is a Guarantor, (ii) by any Foreign Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor of any Indebtedness of any Subsidiary, or (iii) of any of the Obligations; and
(g) Guarantees, investments, loans or advances not otherwise permitted by this Section 6.04 not in excess of fifteen percent (15%) of Consolidated Total Assets in the aggregate; provided that the aggregate outstanding amount (exclusive of investments, loans or advances to Subsidiaries under Section 6.04(d)(ii)) of such Guarantees of, and investments, loans or advances to, Subsidiaries that are not Guarantors shall not exceed seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of Consolidated Total Assets in the aggregate.
SECTION 6.05. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Swap Agreement, except (a) Swap Agreements entered into to hedge or mitigate risks to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary has actual exposure (other than those in respect of Equity Interests of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries), and (b) Swap Agreements entered into in order to effectively cap, collar or exchange interest rates (from fixed to floating rates, from one floating rate to another floating rate or otherwise) with respect to any interest-bearing liability or investment of the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Swap Agreements.
SECTION 6.06. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except (a) the Borrower may declare and pay dividends with respect to its Equity Interests payable solely in additional shares of its common stock, (b) Subsidiaries may declare and pay dividends ratably with respect to their Equity Interests, and (c) the Borrower may make Restricted Payments with respect to its Equity Interests so long as no Default exists or would be caused thereby.
Restricted Payments.
SECTION 6.07. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) transactions between or among the Borrower and its Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries not involving any other Affiliate and (c) any Restricted Payment permitted by Section 6.06.
Transactions with Affiliates.
 
SECTION 6.08. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets, or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of its Equity Interests or to make or repay loans or advances to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or to Guarantee Indebtedness of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary; that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or by this Agreement, (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof identified on Schedule 6.08 (but shall apply to any extension or renewal of, or any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such restriction or condition), (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary pending such sale, provided such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (iv) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness, and (v) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in leases restricting the assignment thereof.
Restrictive Agreements.
provided
SECTION 6.09. . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease, license, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its business, assets, rights, revenues or property, real, personal or mixed, tangible or intangible, whether in one or a series of transactions, other than inventory sold in the ordinary course of business upon customary credit terms, sales of scrap or obsolete material or equipment, the lapse of intellectual property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is no longer useful or material to their business and sales of fixed assets the proceeds of which are used to purchase other property of a similar nature of at least equivalent value within 180 days of such sale, , , that this Section 6.09 shall not (a) prohibit any sale or other transfer of an interest in accounts or notes receivable to a Securitization Entity pursuant to Permitted Securitization Transactions if the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Indebtedness under all Permitted Securitization Transactions does not exceed $250,000,000, (b) prohibit any sale or other transfer of any asset of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any Domestic Subsidiary that is a Guarantor and (c) prohibit any such sale, lease, license, transfer, assignment or other disposition if in any Fiscal Year of the Borrower, the aggregate book value (disregarding any write-downs of such book value other than ordinary depreciation and amortization) of all of the business, assets, rights, revenues and property disposed of shall be less than 20% of the aggregate book value of the Consolidated Total Assets as of the end of the immediately preceding Fiscal Year and the business, assets, rights, revenues and property disposed of shall be responsible for less than 20% of the consolidated net sales and net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the immediately preceding Fiscal Year, and if immediately after any such transaction, no Default shall exist or shall have occurred and be continuing.
Disposition of Assets; Etc
provided
however
SECTION 6.10. . The Borrower will not permit the Leverage Ratio to exceed 3.25 to 1.0 as of the end of any Fiscal Quarter; provided that, upon the written election by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent not later than the last day of the Fiscal Quarter in which a Qualified Acquisition is consummated, the Borrower may elect that the permitted Leverage Ratio hereunder may be greater than 3.25 to 1.00, but in no event greater than 3.50 to 1.00, on such last day of such Fiscal Quarter and on the last day of each of the three Fiscal Quarters next succeeding such Fiscal Quarter.
Leverage Ratio
SECTION 6.11. . The Borrower will not permit the Interest Coverage Ratio to be less than 3.0 to 1.0 as of the end of any Fiscal Quarter.
Interest Coverage Ratio
 
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Term Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Term Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.01, 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to the Borrower's existence), 5.06 (with respect to inspection rights) or 5.08 or in Article VI;
(e) the Borrower or any other Loan Party shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article) or any other Loan Document, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
(f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable (after giving effect to any applicable grace periods);
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
 
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate Dollar Equivalent amount in excess of $20,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, results in liabilities in an aggregate Dollar Equivalent amount in excess of $20,000,000;
(m) Any Loan Document shall fail to remain in full force or effect or provide the Lien or Guarantee intended to be provided, or any action shall be taken to discontinue or to assert the invalidity or unenforceability of any Loan Document, or the Borrower or any other Loan Party shall deny that it has any further liability under any Loan Document to which it is a party, or shall give notice to such effect; or
(n) a Change in Control shall occur;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Term Loan Commitments, and thereupon the Term Loan Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Term Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Term Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Term Loan Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Term Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower.
 
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or wilful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document (including without limitation the creation, perfection or priority of Liens on the Collateral or the existence of the Collateral), or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
No Joint Lead Arranger or Syndication Agent, nor any Lender identified as a documentation agent, co-agent or other similar title, shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all Lenders as such.
SECTION 9.01. (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices.
(i) if to a Borrower, to it at 515 Eastern Avenue, Allegan, Michigan, 49101, Attention of Michael Kelly, assistant treasurer (Telecopy No. (269) 673-1440; e-mail: michael.kelly@perrigo.com);
(ii) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Loan and Agency Services Group, 10 S. Dearborn St., Chicago, Illinois, 60670, Attention of Teresita Siao (Telecopy No. (888) 266-8059; e-mail: jpm.agency.servicing.5@jpmchase.com); or
 
(iii) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
(b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
(c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
SECTION 9.02. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Term Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments.
(b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Term Loan Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender directly affected thereby, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Term Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Term Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Term Loan Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.15(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (v) release any material Guarantor from its obligations under any Guaranty or release all or substantially all of the Collateral, except to the extent permitted hereunder (whether pursuant to any sale or other transfer of the relevant Guarantor or Collateral permitted hereunder or as otherwise permitted hereunder) or with the consent of all the Lenders, or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent.
provided
provided further
 
(c) If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of "each Lender" or "each Lender affected thereby," the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained, but the consent of other necessary Lenders is not obtained (any such Lender whose consent is necessary but not obtained being referred to herein as a ""), then the Borrower may elect to replace a Non-Consenting Lender as a Lender party to this Agreement, that, concurrently with such replacement, (i) another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Term Loans and other Obligations due to the Non-Consenting Lender pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Non-Consenting Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of clause (b) of Section 9.04, and (ii) the Borrower shall pay to such Non-Consenting Lender in same day funds on the day of such replacement (1) all interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Non-Consenting Lender by the Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Non-Consenting Lender under Sections 2.12 and 2.14, and (2) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under Section 2.13 had the Term Loans of such Non-Consenting Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender.
Non-Consenting Lender
provided
SECTION 9.03. (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates in connection with the syndication of the credit facility provided for herein, the preparation and administration of the Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with the Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Term Loans made hereunder, including all such reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Term Loans.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Syndication Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all liabilities, Taxes, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against it, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Term Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto, or in any other way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any action taken or omitted by it under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
Indemnitee
provided
 
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Term Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
(f) The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of the Obligations.
SECTION 9.04. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of their rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void), and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person, Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
(b)(i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Term Loan Commitment and the Term Loans at the time owing to it) with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of:
(A) the Borrower, that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender, an Approved Fund or, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee; and
provided
 
(B) the Administrative Agent, that no consent of the Administrative Agent shall be required for an assignment of all or any portion of a Term Loan to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund.
provided
(ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following additional conditions:
(A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Term Loan Commitment or Term Loans, the amount of the Term Loan Commitment or Term Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 or, in the case of a Term Loan, $1,000,000, unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing;
provided
(B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement;
(C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; and
(D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
For the purposes of this Section 9.04(b), the term "" has the following meaning:
Approved Fund
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
(iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.12, 2.13, 2.14 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
 
(iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Term Loan Commitment of, and principal amount of the Term Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register; that if either the assigning Lender or the assignee shall have failed to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(b), 2.15(d) or 9.03(c), the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information therein in the Register unless and until such payment shall have been made in full, together with all accrued interest thereon. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
provided
(c)(i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Term Loan Commitment and the Term Loans owing to it); that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.12, 2.13 and 2.14 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.15(c) as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
(ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.12 or 2.14 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.14(e) as though it were a Lender.
(d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
 
SECTION 9.05. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Term Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Term Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Term Loan Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.12, 2.13, 2.14 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Term Loans, or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival.
SECTION 9.06. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
SECTION 9.07. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability.
SECTION 9.08. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff.
SECTION 9.09. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of Michigan.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.
 
(b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any Court of the State of Michigan and any court of the United States District Court sitting in Michigan, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such Michigan State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
SECTION 9.10. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
SECTION 9.11. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings.
SECTION 9.12. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or their business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality.
Information
 
SECTION 9.13. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Term Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Term Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Term Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Term Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Term Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Term Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation.
Charges
Maximum Rate
SECTION 9.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act") hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 2.01  Term Loan Commitments
 
Schedule 3.06  Disclosed Matters (Litigation and Environmental Matters)
No Disclosure.
Schedule 3.07  Disclosed Matters (Compliance with Laws and Agreements)
No Disclosure.
Schedule 6.01  Existing Indebtedness
 
 
Schedule 6.02  Existing Liens
 
 
 
The liens in favor of the State of Israel were created for participation in the Investment Center of the State of Israel.
DEBTOR: PERRIGO COMPANY
 
DEBTOR: L. PERRIGO COMPANY
 
DEBTOR: PERRIGO COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA
 
DEBTOR: PERRIGO PHARMACEUTICALS COMPANY
 
DEBTOR: PERRIGO INTERNATIONAL, INC.
 
DEBTOR: PERRIGO HOLLAND INC.
 
DEBTOR: Perrigo Florida Inc.
 
DEBTOR: Perrigo International Holdings Inc.
 
DEBTOR: Perrigo International Holdings II Inc.
 
DEBTOR: PBM Nutritionals, LLC
 
DEBTOR: PBM Holdings, Inc.
 
On and after the Closing Date:
In connection with the Paddock Acquisition, the following Liens relating to the Paddock Purchased Assets will be assumed by Borrower or a Subsidiary:
 
Schedule 6.04  Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 6.08  Existing Restrictions
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A - Assignment and Assumption
This Assignment and Assumption (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Term Loan Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Term Loan Agreement
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Term Loan Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of the Assignor's rights and obligations in its capacity as a Lender under the Term Loan Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of the Assignor under the respective facilities identified below (including any guarantees included in such facilities) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Term Loan Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
6. Assigned Interest:
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
        
    
    
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
ANNEX 1
1. .
Representations and Warranties
1.1 . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Term Loan Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
1.2. . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Term Loan Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Term Loan Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Term Loan Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Term Loan Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to the Assignment and Assumption is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Term Loan Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of Michigan.
General Provisions
Exhibit B  Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement
Reference is made to the Term Loan Agreement (as amended or modified from time to time, the "Term Loan Agreement"), dated as of January 20, 2011, is among Perrigo Company, the Lenders party hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent. Capitalized terms which are defined in the Term Loan Agreement and which are used herein without definition shall have the same meanings herein as in the Term Loan Agreement.
The Borrower and (the "[New or Current] Lender") agree as follows:
                            
1. Subject to Section 2.06 of the Term Loan Agreement and this Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement, the Borrower hereby increases the Aggregate Term Loan Commitments from $ to $ (such increase shall be in increments of $10,000,000 and shall not cause the Aggregate Term Loan Commitment to exceed the amount permitted under Section 2.06 of the Term Loan Agreement). This Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement is entered into pursuant to, and authorized by, Section 2.06 of the Term Loan Agreement.
        
        
2. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that, as of the date hereof and after giving effect to this Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement, the Aggregate Term Loan Commitment and the Term Loan Commitment of each Lender under the Term Loan Agreement, including without limitation, the [New or Current] Lender, are set forth on Schedule 2.01 hereto, and that Schedule 2.01 hereto replaces Schedule 2.01 to the Term Loan Agreement as of the Closing Date.
3. [If requested by the Current Lender, the Current Lender attaches the notes delivered to it under the Term Loan Agreement and requests that the Borrower exchange such notes for new notes in the amount of its revised Term Loan Commitment][ If requested by the New Lender, the New Lender requests that the Borrower issue notes in the amount of its Term Loan Commitment.]
4. The [New or Current] Lender (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Term Loan Agreement, (ii) it satisfies the requirements, if any, specified in the Term Loan Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to execute and perform this Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Closing Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Term Loan Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent specified herein, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Term Loan Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and (v) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached to this Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Term Loan Agreement, duly completed and executed by it; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
5. The effective date for this Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement shall be (the ). Following the execution of this Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement, it will be delivered to the Administrative Agent for the consent of the Administrative Agent and acceptance and recording in the Register.
            
"Closing Date"
6. Upon such consents, acceptance and recording, from and after the Closing Date, the [New or Current] Lender shall be a party to the Term Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which Lenders are parties and to the extent provided in this Lender Addition and Acknowledgement Agreement, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under each such agreement.
7. Upon such consents, acceptance and recording, from and after the Closing Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the [New or Current] Lender.
8. The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that (a) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing hereunder as of the Closing Date; and (b) the representations and warranties made by the Borrower and contained in Article III of the Term Loan Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date with the same effect as if made on and as of such date (other than those representations and warranties that by their terms speak as of a particular date, which representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such particular date).
9. Except as expressly amended hereby, the Borrower agrees that the Term Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents are ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect, and that it has no set off, counterclaim, or defense with respect to any of the foregoing.
10. This Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement. This Lender Addition and Acknowledgment Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of Michigan.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C  Form of Note
, a (the "Borrower"), promises to pay to the order of (the "Lender") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Term Loan made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the Term Loan Agreement (as hereinafter defined), in immediately available funds at the office of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,, as Administrative Agent, designated in the Term Loan Agreement, together with interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof at the rates and on the dates set forth in the Term Loan Agreement. The Borrower shall pay the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Term Loan in the amounts and at the times required under the Term Loan Agreement.
                             
                    
                                
The Lender shall, and is hereby authorized to record in accordance with its usual practice, the date and amount of each Term Loan and the date and amount of each principal payment hereunder.
This Note is one of the Notes issued pursuant to, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Term Loan Agreement dated as of January 20, 2011 (the "Term Loan Agreement") by and among Perrigo Company, a Michigan corporation (the "Borrower"), the Lenders (together with their respective successors and assigns, the "Lenders"), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the "Administrative Agent"), to which Term Loan Agreement reference is hereby made for a statement of the terms and conditions governing this Note, including the terms and conditions under which this Note may be prepaid or its maturity date accelerated. This Note is secured and/or guaranteed as more specifically described in the Term Loan Agreement and other Loan Documents, and reference is made thereto for a statement of the terms and provisions thereof. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein are used with the meanings attributed to them in the Term Loan Agreement.
 
 


