FILE:PRGO/PRGO-8K-20121107083918.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 6, 2012
 
 
 
PERRIGO COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(269) 673-8451
 
 
 
 
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 7,, Perrigo Company (the Company) released earnings for the first fiscal quarter 2013. The press release related to the Companys earnings is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
2012
 
The earnings release contains certain non-GAAP measures. A non-GAAP financial measure is defined as a numerical measure of a companys financial performance that excludes or includes amounts different than the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in the statements of income, balance sheets or statements of cash flows of the company. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, the Company has provided a reconciliation for cost of sales, gross profit, operating expenses, operating income, income tax expense, net income and earnings per share within its earnings release to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure for these non-GAAP measures.
 
The Company excludes the items listed below in the applicable period when monitoring and evaluating the on-going financial results and trends of its business, and believes that presenting operating results excluding these items is also useful for investors, since it provides important insight into the Company's on-going core business operations on a normalized basis. Adjusted earnings is one of the primary indicators management uses for planning and forecasting in future periods, including trending and analyzing the core operating performance of the Companys business from period to period without the effect of the non-core business items indicated. Management uses adjusted earnings to prepare operating budgets and forecasts and to measure the Companys performance against those budgets and forecasts on a corporate and segment level.
 
Items excluded from reported results and guidance:
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2012 Results
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2013 Results
 
Fiscal 2012 Results
 
Fiscal 2013 Guidance
 
The information in this Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Report shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
On November 6, 2012, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Jacqualyn A. Fouse, Ph.D. as a new director of the Company for a term expiring on the date of the 2013 annual meeting. The Board has appointed Ms. Fouse to the Audit Committee.
 
Ms. Fouse, 51, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Celgene Corporation, a leading global biopharmaceutical company, since September 2010.  From July 2007 until September 2010, she served as Chief Financial Officer for Bunge Ltd., a leading global agribusiness and food company. From 2002 to July 2007, Ms. Fouse served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Strategy, at Alcon Laboratories, a leading eye care company.  Prior to Alcon Laboratories, from 2001 to 2002 Ms. Fouse was Chief Financial Officer of Swissair Group in Switzerland and from 1999 to 2001 was Group Treasurer of Nestle S.A. in Switzerland.  Ms. Fouse held various senior level financial positions in both the U.S. and Switzerland with both Alcon and Nestle from 1986 to 1999.  She also held positions with LTV Aerospace and Defense and Celanese Chemical Company from 1983 to 1986.  Ms. Fouse currently serves on the Board of Dicks Sporting Goods, a leading U.S. retailer of sporting goods and athletic apparel. 
 
Ms. Fouse will receive the directors annual cash retainer and equity compensation, both pro-rated from the date she became a director.
 
 
At the Companys Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on November 6, 2012, the Companys shareholders voted on the following matters:
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release issued by Perrigo Company on November 7, 2012 furnished solely pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.

Perrigo Reports Record First Quarter Revenue And Adjusted Earnings And Raises Full Year Adjusted EPS Guidance
- Fiscal first quarter adjusted net income increased 16% to a record $119 million, or $1.27 per diluted share, inclusive of an $0.08 tax benefit.
- Fiscal first quarter GAAP net income increased 50% to $106 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, due primarily to $0.21 per diluted share in acquisition-related costs in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
- Management raises full-year fiscal 2013 adjusted earnings per share to be in a range of $5.45 to $5.65 per diluted share, an increase of 9% to 13% compared to fiscal 2012's $4.99 per diluted share, to reflect the acquisition of Sergeant's Pet Care Products, Inc., tax benefits and continued execution of the Company's core businesses.
ALLEGAN, Mich., Nov. 7, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Perrigo Company (Nasdaq: PRGO; TASE: PRGO) today announced results for its first quarter ended September 29, 2012.
(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20120301/DE62255LOGO )
Perrigo's Chairman and CEO Joseph C. Papa commented, "We have started fiscal 2013 well, delivering record first quarter revenue and adjusted earnings. We also delivered all-time record adjusted gross and operating margins. Store brand OTC market share continues to grow. Our Consumer Healthcare segment's revenue grew 9.4% from a record first quarter last year. Our Rx segment continued its excellent performance, which was driven by the acquisition of Paddock Labs, new product sales and strong organic Rx results, combined with our continued focus on quality and R&D. Clearly we are focused on the results from our Nutritionals segment and the team has an action plan in place for the rest of the year. We believe our value proposition continues to resonate well with consumers."
Refer to Table I at the end of this press release for adjustments in the current year and prior year periods and additional non-GAAP disclosure information. The Company's reported results are summarized in the attached Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, Balance Sheets and Cash Flows.
First Quarter Results
Net sales in the quarter were $770 million, an increase of 6% over the first quarter of fiscal 2012, driven primarily by $28 million attributable to the Paddock Laboratories, Inc. ("Paddock") and CanAm Care, LLC ("CanAm") acquisitions and new product sales of $26 million, partially offset by decreases in sales of certain existing products in the Nutritionals and API segments and $5 million due to unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding charges as outlined in Table I at the end of this release, first quarter fiscal 2013 adjusted net income increased 16% to $119 million, or $1.27 per share. Reported net income increased 50% to $106 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, due primarily to $0.21 per diluted share in acquisition-related costs in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
Consumer Healthcare
Consumer Healthcare segment net sales increased 9% to $450 million due to an increase in sales of existing products of $36 million (contract, cough/cold and smoking cessation categories), new product sales of $13 million (gastrointestinal, cough/cold and dermatological categories) and $9 million in incremental sales attributable to the acquisition of CanAm. These combined increases were partially offset by a decline of $17 million in sales of existing products (analgesics and feminine hygiene categories) and a decline of $4 million due to discontinued products.
Adjusted gross and operating margins expanded 90 and 70 basis points, respectively, due to new products, product mix and cost controls in the Company's manufacturing plants.
Nutritionals
The Nutritionals segment reported first quarter net sales of $103 million, compared with $120 million a year ago as existing product sales declined $20 million, partially offset by new product sales of $3 million (infant formula category). The decrease in sales was due primarily to a decline in existing product sales in the vitamin, minerals and dietary supplements ("VMS") category driven by increased competition and increased retail shipments of infant formula placed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 in advance of the planned July 1 shutdown of the Company's Vermont Plant to perform an SAP conversion and prepare for the installation of a new packaging line. Reported and adjusted gross profit and margin were impacted by relatively lower volumes in infant formula and VMS, along with increased inventory costs.
st
Operating income and margin were impacted by higher combined research and development and distribution, selling, general and administration expenses as a percent to net sales, though they were lower on a dollar basis, year-over-year.
Rx Pharmaceuticals
The Rx Pharmaceuticals segment first quarter net sales increased 28% to $163 million due primarily to incremental net sales of $19 million from the July 26, 2011 Paddock acquisition, new product sales of $8 million and improved pricing on select products.
Year-over-year percent changes in reported gross profit and operating income were impacted by the absence of a one-time charge of $27 million to cost of sales as a result of the step-up of inventory value related to the Paddock acquisition in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
API
The API segment's net sales declined by 24% to $36 million due primarily to a decrease in existing product sales of approximately $17 million as a result of increased competition and pricing pressures on select products, along with a negative impact of $2 million due to changes in foreign currency, partially offset by $7 million related to the launch of a customer's product with 180-day exclusivity status.
Gross and operating margins were positively impacted by the product launch referred to above.
Other
The Other category reported decreased first quarter net sales of approximately $17 million, compared with $18 million a year ago, due primarily to the impact of unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Adjusted operating income was approximately $1 million, representing an increase in adjusted operating margin of 100 basis points from last year due to product mix.
Guidance
Chairman, President and CEO Joseph C. Papa concluded, "The strength of our diversified business model was evident this quarter. Margin expansion remains a top priority for the Company and we continue to make ROIC positive investments in operations and products. As we look forward to the rest of fiscal 2013, we continue to expect strong new product launches and further conversion of consumers to store brand."
The Company expects fiscal 2013 reported earnings to be between $4.71 and $4.91 per diluted share as compared to $4.18 in fiscal 2012. Excluding the charges outlined in Table III at the end of this release, the Company expects fiscal 2013 adjusted earnings to be between $5.45 and $5.65 per diluted share as compared to $4.99 in fiscal 2012 reflecting the acquisition of Sergeant's Pet Care Products, Inc., the realization of tax benefits and continued execution of the core businesses. This new range implies a year-over-year growth rate in adjusted earnings of 9% to 13% over fiscal 2012's adjusted earnings from continuing operations per diluted share.
The conference call will be available live via webcast to interested parties on the Perrigo website http://perrigo.investorroom.com/events-webcasts or by phone at 877-248-9413, International 973-582-2737, and reference ID# 46994711. A taped replay of the call will be available beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. (ET) Wednesday, November 7, 2012 until midnight Friday, November 23, 2012. To listen to the replay, dial 855-859-2056, International 404-537-3406, and use access code 46994711.
From its beginnings as a packager of generic home remedies in 1887, Perrigo Company, based in Allegan, Michigan, has grown to become a leading global provider of quality, affordable healthcare products. The Company develops, manufactures and distributes over-the-counter ("OTC") and generic prescription ("Rx") pharmaceuticals, nutritional products and active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API") and is the world's largest manufacturer of OTC pharmaceutical products for the store brand market. Perrigo's mission is to offer uncompromised "quality, affordable healthcare products", and it does so across a wide variety of product categories primarily in the United States, United Kingdom, Mexico, Israel and Australia, as well as certain other markets throughout the world, including Canada, China and Latin America. Visit Perrigo on the Internet (http://www.perrigo.com).
: Certain statements in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created thereby. These statements relate to future events or the Company's future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements of the Company or its industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "could," "would," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "intend," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential" or other comparable terminology. The Company has based these forward-looking statements on its current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections. While the Company believes these expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control. These and other important factors, including those discussed under "Risk Factors" in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2012, as well as the Company's subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this press release are made only as of the date hereof, and unless otherwise required by applicable securities laws, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Note
CONTACT: Arthur J. Shannon, Vice President, Investor Relations and Communication, +1-269-686-1709, ajshannon@perrigo.com; or Bradley Joseph, Senior Manager, Investor Relations and Communication, +1-269-686-3373, bradley.joseph@perrigo.com


