FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20080205081610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                            ______________
 
 
                                                                                                            ______________
 
 
                                                                                                            ______________
                                                                                                            ______________
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On
February 5, 2008,
Invesco Ltd. (the registrant) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2007. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings (unless the registrant specifically states that the information or exhibit in this particular report is incorporated by reference).
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 5, 2008
 
 
 

 
 
Atlanta
,
February
5
, 200
8
Invesco (NYSE: IVZ) began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on December 4, 2007, and today
announces
its first quarterly earnings release in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP). 
Net income was $673.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 (2006: $482.7 million). Diluted earnings per share were $1.64 for the year (2006: $1.19). Operating income increased 31.0% to $994.3 million for the year from $759.2 million in 2006. Total dividends for 2007, including a final dividend of $0.22 per share, were $0.384
per share, an increase of
6.1% over 2006.
Another year of solid progress for Invesco was highlighted by record company earnings and our December listing on the New York Stock Exchange, said Invesco President and CEO Martin L. Flanagan. Although turbulent global markets may continue into 2008, Invescos broad investment capabilities will allow us to meet the
needs
of clients seeking to build financial security. The recent successful close by Wilbur Ross and the team of a $4 billion fund that will invest in distressed investment opportunities illustrates Invescos comprehensive range of investment solutions.   The work accomplished over the past two years puts Invesco in a strong position in this volatile market environment, added Mr. Flanagan. During the coming year, we will
continue to
use a disciplined approach to improve our competitive position in the marketplace for the benefit of our clients and shareholders.
Net income was $175.9 million for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2007 (third quarter ended September 30, 2007: $167.0 million). Diluted earnings per share were $0.43 for the fourth quarter (third quarter: $0.41).
Operating
income
was
$243.7
million
for the fourth quarter
(third quarter: $256.5
million). Operating expenses for the fourth quarter included charges
of $12.8 million related to the relisting of the company
on the New York
Stock Exchange
and $9.8
million related to a proposed final settlement of
market-timing private litigation
that commenced in 2003.
These
charges
had a
combined effect of reducing our diluted earnings per share by $0.04.
When our prior
primary listing
was
on the London Stock Exchange, Invesco prepared its financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), with an annual reconciliation to U.S. GAAP.  As the company recently transitioned from IFRS to U.S. GAAP reporting standards, this
release
of 2007 fourth quarter
and annual
results includes relevant IFRS measurements to help
readers
better understand the companys performance.
(See the supplementary schedules on page 11
of this release for reconciliations from U.S. GAAP to IFRS for the years and quarters ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, as well as the quarter ended September 30, 2007).
The primary differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS
impacting our
operating
revenues and operating expenses
relate to the presentation of third-party distribution, service and advisory costs as contra revenues under IFRS but as operating expenses under U.S. GAAP, and to the accounting for our investments in joint ventures, which under IFRS were proportionately consolidated and under U.S. GAAP are accounted for using the equity method. Accordingly, the company has calculated
net revenues by deducting third-party distribution, service and advisory costs and adding back our proportional share of the net revenues of our joint venture investments. Furthermore, the company has
calculated net operating margin
by including in our operating income our proportional share of the operating income of our joint venture investments and dividing by net revenues.  
Net operating margin was 34.4% for the fourth quarter (third quarter: 37.5%). The impact of the $22.6 million charges on fourth quarter net operating margin was a 2.9 percentage point decline.
Earnings Summary
Operating revenues
increased
4.8% to $1,023.1
million in the fourth quarter from $976.6
million in the third quarter. Operating revenues increased
17.4% from $871.6
million in the fourth quarter of 2006. The increases in operating revenues are consistent with the increases in assets under management during these
 
 
periods. Operating revenues
include performance fees of $13.1
million for the
fourth quarter
(third quarter:  $4.0 million;
fourth quarter
2006:  $25.9 million).
Net revenues were $766.7
million for the fourth quarter (third quarter: $722.4
million).
See page 9
for a reconciliation of operating revenues to net revenues.
Employee compensation costs increased
2.9% to $286.3
million for the
fourth quarter
from $278.1
million for the third quarter. This was largely due to
increased
share-based compensation,
as
amortization began related to
$73.5
million
of
share incentive awards
granted
at the end of the third quarter.
Employee compensation costs also increased
4.8% from $273.2 million for the
fourth quarter of
2006, driven by increases in sales incentive and staff bonuses.
Third-party distribution, service and advisory
costs
increased 5.2% to $284.9
million for the
fourth quarter
from $270.8 million for the third quarter, driven by higher asset levels and moving from direct sales to platform sales in the U.K.  Third-party distribution, service and advisory costs
increased 27.5% from $223.5 million for the
fourth quarter 2006 due to increased sales and overall higher asset levels.
General and
administrative costs increased
63.3% to $104.0
million for the
fourth quarter
from $63.7
million for the
third quarter.
Within
general
and administrative
costs
were
charges
of $12.8 million related to the relisting of the company and $9.8
million related to a proposed final settlement of the market-timing private litigation.
There was an additional
$12.5
million
of expense that included
proxy costs
for our U.S. retail business, legal costs related to the
market-timing regulatory
settlements, and
costs associated with
the
transfer of the record keeping element of our UK defined contribution pensions business to a third party.
A significant portion of the tax
expense
in the quarter
arose from U.S., U.K., and Canadian operations. The effective tax rate, excluding minority interests,
was
34.2
%
for the
fourth quarter
of 2007
(third quarter 2007: 35.7%; fourth quarter 2006:
33.6%).  
Capital Management
On June 13, 2007,
the companys board of directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $500.0 million of the companys shares
through
June 30, 2008.  Of the total amount authorized, $154.5
million remains as of
December 31, 2007. 
During the fourth quarter, purchases related to this program totaled $248.1 million, representing
9.0
million
shares. In addition, during the fourth quarter
8.4 million shares were purchased for the employee share award trusts for $216.6 million.
During the fourth quarter,
the first anniversary earn-out payment of $44.8 million was made on the WL Ross & Co. acquisition.
At the date of acquisition (October 2006), the WL Ross assets under management were $2.6
billion. As of December 31, 2007, these assets had grown to $6.8
billion.
 
 
 
Also during the fourth quarter, $129.6
million was accrued and
subsequently paid in January 2008
related to the
second contingent payment
associated with the 2006 acquisition of PowerShares.
This contingent payment became payable when aggregate management fees
reached $50.0 million for the
preceding
twelve months.
At the date of acquisition (September 2006), PowerShares assets under management were $6.3
billion. As of December 31, 2007, these assets
had grown to $14.5
billion.
In conjunction with the relisting of the company, we implemented a reverse stock split on a
one-for-two
basis. Shareholders received one Invesco Ltd. share for every two INVESCO PLC shares held. The earnings per share, dividends,
and share amounts in this earnings release reflect the impact of the reverse stock split for all periods presented.
On February 1, 2008, the board of directors
declared a final (semi-annual) dividend for 2007 of $0.22 per share.
The dividend will be paid on
April
7, 2008 to holders of record on March
19, 2008.  In conjunction with common practice for U.S.
listed companies, subsequent dividends will be declared and paid each quarter.
Assets Under Management
 
Assets under management
(AUM)
at
December 31,
2007
were $500.1
billion (September
30, 2007: $507.2
billion).
Average
AUM
during the
fourth
quarter were
$509.9
billion,
compared to
$494.7
billion for the
third
quarter and
$
452.7
billion
for the
fourth
quarter of
2006.
Long-term net
outflows were $5.0
billion
during the fourth quarter
(third quarter: net inflows of $0.2 billion),
including net outflows of stable value assets of $8.9 billion,
with inflows of $30.9
billion and outflows of $35.9
billion.
Money
market net
inflows
were
$3.5
billion in the
fourth
quarter
(third quarter:
net
inflows
of
$5.7
billion).
Further
analysis of
AUM
is included in the supplemental
schedules
to
this release.
Invesco is a leading independent global investment management company, dedicated to helping people worldwide build their financial security.  By delivering the combined power of our distinctive worldwide investment management capabilities, including AIM, Atlantic Trust, Invesco, Perpetual, PowerShares, Trimark, and WL Ross, Invesco provides a comprehensive array of enduring investment solutions for retail, institutional and high net worth clients around the world.  Operating in 20 countries, the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ.  Additional information is available at
www.Invesco.com
.
Members of the investment community and general public are invited to listen to the conference call today,
Tuesday,
February
5, 2008, at
9:30 a.m. EST
(2:30
p.m.
GMT), by dialing one of the following numbers:
1-888-455-2053
for
U.S. and Canadian callers
or
1-517-268-4676
for
international callers. An audio replay of the
 
conference call will be available until
Tuesday,
February
12,
2008, at
5:00 p.m. EST
(10:00
p.m.
GMT)
by calling
1-888-568-0437
for
U.S. and Canadian callers
or
1-402-530-7970
for
international callers.
The presentation will
be made available via a simultaneous Webcast at
www.Invesco.com
.
The presentation slides that will be reviewed
during the conference call will
also
be available on
Invescos Web site at
www.Invesco.com
.
This release may include statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" under the United States securities laws. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of our operations, earnings, liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures, industry or market conditions, assets under management, acquisition activities and the effect of completed acquisitions, debt levels and the ability to obtain additional financing or make payments on our debt, regulatory developments, demand for and pricing of our products and other aspects of our business or general economic conditions. In addition, when used in this  release, words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "projects" and future or conditional verbs such as "will," "may," "could," "should," and "would" and any other statement that necessarily depends on future events, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.   Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Although we make such statements based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from our expectations. We caution investors not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statements. In connection with any forward-looking statements, you should carefully consider the areas of risk described in our most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F and our subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You may obtain these reports from the SECs Web site at
www.sec.gov
.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update any of the information in this or any other public disclosure if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
The following is a reconciliation of operating revenues, operating income and
operating margin
on a U.S. GAAP basis to
net revenues, net operating income and net operating margin.
* Operating margin is equal to operating income divided by operating revenues. ** Net operating margin is equal to net operating income divided by net revenues.
(1)     Net revenues, net operating income and net operating margin are non-GAAP financial measures. Management believes that these measures are additional meaningful measures to evaluate our operating performance. The most comparable U.S. GAAP
 
measures are operating revenues, operating income and operating margin. Management believes that the deduction of third-party distribution, service and advisory costs from operating revenues in the computation of net revenues and the related computation of net operating margin provides useful information to investors because the distribution, service and advisory fee amounts represent costs that are passed through to external parties, which essentially are a share of the related revenues.  Management also believes that the addition of our proportional share of operating revenues, net of distribution costs, from joint venture investments in the computation of net revenues and the addition of our proportional share of operating income in the related computations of net operating income and net operating margin also provides useful information to investors, as management considers it appropriate to evaluate the contribution of its growing joint venture investment to the operations of the business. Net revenues, net operating income and net operating margin should not be considered as substitutes for any measures derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
*Per Share Data for periods prior have been adjusted to reflect the one-for-two reverse stock split that occurred on December 4, 2007.
(1)     
Third-party distribution, service and advisory costs are presented as operating expenses
           under 
U.S. GAAP; whereas under IFRS these costs are presented as contra revenues.
(2)     
Operating revenues and operating expenses from joint venture arrangements are not  
          separately reflected under U.S. GAAP, as these investments are accounted for under the equity
          method, and accordingly the proportional share of the net income from joint ventures are
          reflected in equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in other income/(expense)  net.
          Under IFRS, joint ventures are accounted for using the proportionate consolidation method;
          therefore our proportional share of the operating revenues and operating expenses is reflected
          in those line items on the statements of income.
(3)     
Interests in variable interest entities for which we are the primary beneficiary are consolidated
          under U.S. GAAP. Under IFRS these interests were accounted for as investments.
(4)     
Other adjustments to reconcile net income from U.S. GAAP to IFRS for the company include
          differences in the cost of defined benefit retirement and post-retirement medical plans,
          differences in accounting for redundancy and reorganization costs, the recognition of interest
          charges under IFRS for the discounting related to contingent consideration acquisition earn-out
          liabilities, and the related tax impacts of these differences.
 
 
(a)     
(a)  
Net
revenue yield on AUM is equal to
Net
revenue divided by average AUM.
See the Schedule of Non-GAAP Information on page
9
of this release for a reconciliation of operating revenues to
net
operating revenues.
(b)  
(b)     
The
beginning balances were
adjusted to reflect
certain
asset reclassifications.
(c)   
(c)     
Includes PowerShares's ETF AUM
($14.5
billion at
December 31, 2007),
which are primarily
invested
in equity securities.
(d)  
(d)     
Assets have been restated beginning December 31, 2006 to reflect an amended definition of the alternative asset class. The
alternative asset class includes real estate, private equity
and absolute return strategies.
 
  
(a)
Net
revenue yield on AUM is equal to net
revenue divided by average AUM.
See the Schedule
ofNon-GAAP Information on page
9
of this release for a reconciliation of operating revenues to
net
 
revenues.
(b)
The beginning balances were adjusted to reflect certain asset reclassifications.
(c)  
Includes PowerShares's ETF AUM ($14.5
billion at
December 31, 2007), which are primarily 
interested in equity securities.
(d)
(d) 
Assets have been restated beginning December 31, 2006 to reflect an amended definition of
thealternative asset class. The
alternative asset class includes real estate, private equity
and
ab absolute return strategies.
 
As of
December 31, 2007, performance results include a representative sample of funds and products and may not reflect an investors experience; if all funds and products had available ratings or were included, results may be different. These results are preliminary and subject to revision. Performance assumes the reinvestment of dividends.  Past performance is not indicative of future results.  
 


