FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20080118162635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Changes in Registrant.s Certifying Accountant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Change in Ernst & Young PCAOB-registered entity responsible for audit
On January
17, 2008, the Audit Committee of Invesco Ltd. (the Company)
engaged
Ernst & Young LLP, a Delaware limited liability partnership and member of the global Ernst & Young organization operating in the United States
(Ernst & Young LLP (US))
as its independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. The consolidated financial statements of the
Companys predecessor, Invesco PLC, for
the
fiscal years
ended December 31, 2005 and 2006
were audited
by
Ernst & Young LLP, a limited liability partnership organized under the laws of England and Wales and member of the global Ernst & Young organization operating in the United Kingdom
("Ernst & Young LLP (UK)).
The
independent registered public accounting firm has changed
from Ernst & Young LLP (UK) to Ernst & Young LLP (US) as a result of the
change in the
registrants
domestic filing status with the move of its primary stock listing from the London Stock Exchange to the New York Stock Exchange and the
December 4, 2007 redomicile from the United Kingdom to Bermuda. The above-described engagement of Ernst & Young LLP (US) thus represents only a technical change of responsibility between
members of the global Ernst & Young organization, and not an actual change in the
Companys accounting firm.
Ernst & Young LLP (UK)'s reports
on the financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 did not contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion and were
not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or accounting principles. During the same periods and subsequent interim periods, there were no disagreements between the Company and Ernst & Young LLP (UK) on any matter of accounting principle or practice, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Ernst & Young LLP (UK), would have been referred to in their reports on the financial statements of the Company for such periods.
The Company has requested Ernst & Young LLP (UK) to furnish it a letter addressed to the Commission stating whether it agrees with the above statements. A copy of that letter, dated January 18, 2008 is filed as Exhibit 16 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January
18, 2008
 
 

January 18, 2008    
Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, DC 20549   Gentlemen:  
We have read Item 4.01 of Form 8-K dated January 18, 2008 of Invesco Ltd. (successor to Invesco PLC) and are in agreement with the statements contained therein.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
London


