FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20080516164146.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
On
May 14, 2008,
Invesco Ltd. (the registrant) issued a press release announcing
the results of voting at its 2008 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:
May 14, 2008
 
 

AtlantaMay 14, 2008
Invesco Ltd.
(NYSE: IVZ)
announced that, at its Annual General Meeting
of Shareholders
held today,
the
shareholders of the company approved all
proposals submitted to them.
approved the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the companys independent registered public accounting firm to audit the companys consolidated financial statements for 2008, approved the 2008 Global Equity Incentive Plan and approved the Executive Incentive Bonus Plan.
At
the meeting,
shareholders re-elected Rex D. Adams, Sir John Banham and Denis Kessler to three-year terms
to
the
companys
Board of Directors. Additionally,
shareholders
 
 
 
Invesco is a leading independent global investment management company, dedicated to helping people worldwide build their financial security. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive worldwide investment management capabilities, including AIM, Atlantic Trust, Invesco, Perpetual, PowerShares, Trimark, and WL Ross, Invesco provides a comprehensive array of enduring investment solutions for retail, institutional and high net worth clients around the world. Operating in 20 countries, the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ. Additional information is available at www.invesco.com.
 
 


