FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20080512142159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to Section
 
13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
 
May 9, 2008
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (404) 892-0896
n/a
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 9, 2008, Invesco Ltd. (the registrant) issued a press release announcing its preliminary assets under management for the month ended April 30, 2008. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the registrant with the Securities and Exchange Commission, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filings (unless the registrant specifically states that the information or exhibit in this particular report is incorporated by reference).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:
May 12
, 2008
 
 

 
 
Atlanta, May 9, 2008
 
Invesco Ltd. (NYSE: IVZ) today reported corrected asset classifications of preliminary month-end assets under
management of
$480.8
billion.
 
 
 
Invesco is a leading independent global investment management company, dedicated to helping people worldwide
build their financial security. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive worldwide investment management
capabilities, including AIM, Atlantic Trust, Invesco, Perpetual, PowerShares, Trimark, and WL Ross, Invesco
provides a comprehensive array of enduring investment solutions for retail, institutional and high net worth
clients around the world. Operating in 20 countries, the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol IVZ. Additional information is available at
www.invesco.com
.
 
 
 
 


