FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20091229154954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ms. Wood is currently a principal at Companies Wood and most recently served as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Brown-Forman Corporation.  Prior to Brown-Forman, Ms. Wood was Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and a Director of Propel Corporation from 2000-2001. Previously, Ms. Wood served in various capacities, the latest as Vice President of Finance, Planning and Control, during her tenure at Atlantic Richfield Company (ARCO) from 1976-2000.  Ms. Wood currently serves on the Board of Directors and as a member of the Compensation and Audit Committees of Ms. Wood received her A.B. degree from Smith College and her M.B.A. from University of California Los Angeles.
On December 28, 2009, the Board appointed Phoebe A. Wood as a new director, with a term commencing January 1, 2010.  
Leggett & Platt, Incorporated, as well as on the Board of Directors of the American Printing House for the Blind.
Ms. Wood has been appointed to the Audit Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
In addition to being appointed to the Board,
Ms. Wood will participate in the following standard fee arrangements for non-executive directors for 2010. She will receive the annual basic fee in the amount of $120,000 in cash, as well as an award of shares in the aggregate amount of $95,000. Such shares are paid in four quarterly installments of $23,750, each of which is paid on the second business day following the public announcement of the companys quarterly earnings results. It is the policy of the Board that such shares will not be sold or otherwise disposed of during the period of the recipients service on the Board.
A copy of the press release issued by the company in connection with the above is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: December 29, 2009
 
 
 
 
 

 
  Invesco Ltd. today announced that Phoebe A. Wood has been elected a member of the Board of Directors, effective January, 2010. Ms. Wood, 56, is currently a principal at CompaniesWood and most recently served as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of Brown-Forman Corporation.
Atlanta    December 28, 2009
Phoebe Woods extensive financial experience and leadership qualities make her a valuable addition to Invescos Board, said Rex Adams, chairman of the Board of Directors. Phoebe is a highly respected and proven business leader whose numerous skills will greatly benefit our Board.
With the addition of Ms. Wood, the Board will increase to ten members, eight of whom, including Ms. Wood, are independent. Ms. Wood will also join the Audit, Compensation and the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
Prior to her tenure at Brown-Forman from 2001 to 2008, Ms. Wood was Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and a Director of Propel Corporation, a subsidiary of Motorola, from 2000-2001.   During her career at Atlantic Richfield Company (ARCO) from 1976-2000, Ms. Wood served in various capacities, the latest as Vice President of Finance, Planning and Control for ARCO Alaska.  Ms. Wood currently serves on the Board of Directors of Leggett & Platt and is a member of the Board of Trustees of Smith College, the University of Louisville and the American Printing House for the Blind. Ms. Wood received her AB degree from Smith College and earned an M.B.A. from the University of California Los Angeles.
cum laude
Invesco is a leading independent global investment management company, dedicated to helping people worldwide build their financial security. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive worldwide investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a comprehensive array of enduring investment solutions for retail, institutional and high net worth clients around the world. Operating in 20 countries, the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ. Additional information is available at www.invesco.com.
 
 
Invesco Ltd.
Two Peachtree Pointe
1555 Peachtree Street, N.E.
Atlanta, GA 30309
 
Telephone: 404 479 1095
 


