FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20100811164546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 10, 2010, Invesco Ltd. issued a press release announcing its preliminary assets under management for the month ended July 31, 2010. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: August 11, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Invesco Ltd. (NYSE: IVZ) today reported preliminary month-end assets under management of $580.3 billion, an increase of 4.1% month over month. Net long-term flows were positive during the month and largely driven by AUM excluding ETF, UIT and Passive assets.  Strengthening foreign currencies against the USD, which contributed approximately $5 billion in AUM during the month, and an overall improvement in global financial market returns, also contributed to higher assets month over month.  Average assets during the month of July were $574.7 billion.
Atlanta, August 10, 2010 ---
 
(a) Preliminary  subject to adjustment.
(b) Preliminary - ending money market AUM includes $66.4 billion in institutional money market AUM and $4.3 billion in retail money market AUM.
Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager, dedicated to helping investors worldwide achieve their financial objectives.  By delivering the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a wide range of investment strategies and vehicles to our retail, institutional and high net worth clients around the world.  Operating in 20 countries, the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ.  Additional information is available at www.invesco.com.


