FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20111014161019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
Compensatory Contract for Named Executive Officer
 
 
On October 10, 2011, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Invesco Ltd. (together with its affiliates, as applicable, Invesco or the Company) entered into an employment agreement (the Employment Agreement) with Invesco Ltd.s Senior Managing Director and the Head of Invesco Institutional, G. Mark Armour.  The Employment Agreement modifies and supersedes the terms of Mr. Armours employment set forth in the Description of Material Employment Terms, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Invescos Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2010.
 
 
The principal terms of the Employment Agreement are described below:
 
 
  The Employment Agreement is effective as of September 1, 2011.
Effective Date.
 
 
  Mr. Armours base salary under the Employment Agreement will be $A 425,000 per year.
Base Salary.
 
 
  Mr. Armour will continue to have the opportunity to receive annual bonuses at the discretion of the Company.
Annual Bonus Compensation.
 
 
  Mr. Armour will be eligible for superannuation contributions to be paid by the Company in an amount equal to 9% of base salary, retrenchment benefits, and welfare and fringe benefits.  Mr. Armour will also be eligible to receive annual tax consultancy services at the expense of the Company.
Other Benefits.
 
 
Termination of Employment.
 
 
.  Each of Mr. Armour and, in the absence of Cause (as defined in the applicable equity incentive plan from time to time), the Company is required to give the other six (6) months advance written notice of the intent to terminate the employment relationship (the Notice Period). The Company has the right to relieve Mr. Armour of all of his duties and place him on paid administrative leave during the Notice Period.
Notice
 
 
.  Mr. Armours employment will not terminate until the expiration of the Notice Period.  However,at any time during his employment relationship the Company may terminate the employment relationship for Cause, effective immediately.
Effective Date of Termination
 
 
 
  The Employment Agreement prohibits Mr. Armour from disclosing any (i) confidential information of Invesco for six months after his date of termination of employment, and (ii) trade secrets of Invesco at any time after termination of his employment while they remain trade secrets under applicable law. The Employment Agreement also prohibits Mr. Armour, for a period of six months following his termination of employment, from recruiting any employee of the Company with whom he had material contact to leave the Company, or (ii) soliciting any customer of the Company with whom he had material contact for purposes of providing investment management products or services.
Nondisclosure; Nonrecruitment; Nonsolicitation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: October 14, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


