FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20110112192424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
On January 11, 2011, Invesco Ltd. issued a press release announcing its preliminary assets under management for the month ended December 31, 2010. A copy of that press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 12, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
For immediate release
Press Release
Invesco Ltd. Announces December 31, 2010
Assets Under Management
Invesco Ltd. (NYSE: IVZ) today reported preliminary month-end assets under management of $616.0 billion, an increase of 0.8% month over monthThe month over month increase in AUM was driven primarily by positive returns from global financial markets and strengthening foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. The benefit from stronger foreign currency against the U.S. dollar resulted in an increase of $2.9 billion of AUM in the month. Additionally, excluding the previously announced low fee passive mandate outflow of $18.6 billion, the firm experienced approximately $2.0 billion of long term net outflows during the month from assets excluding ETFs, UITs, and passive which were largely institutional and lower fee, in nature. Total average assets for the quarter through December 31 were $616.0 billion and average assets excluding ETF, UIT and Passive for the quarter through December 31 were $525.9 billion.
Atlanta, January 11, 2011 -
.
In December, the company closed the acquisition of the Asia fund and asset management business of AIG Global Real Estate Investment Corp., which included $5.4 billion of alternatives AUM. Of the total acquired AUM, $0.2 billion is classified in ETF/UIT/Passive alternative AUM.
 
 
Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager, dedicated to helping investors worldwide achieve their financial objectives. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a wide range of investment strategies and vehicles to our retail, institutional and high net worth clients around the world. Operating in 20 countries, the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ. Additional information is available at www.invesco.com.


