FILE:IVZ/IVZ-8K-20110712161843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 12, 2011, Invesco Ltd. (the registrant) issued a press release (Press Release) announcing its June 30, 2011 preliminary assets under management and the date and time of the conference call to be held in connection with its earnings release for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 (2 Quarter Release). In the Press Release, the registrant also announced that, beginning with the 2 Quarter Release, the registrant will change the presentation of marketing support expenses from marketing expenses to third-party distribution, service and advisory expenses. The presentation change does not represent a restatement of any previously published financial results of the registrant. A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
nd
nd
 
The discussion of the Press Release set forth in response to Item 2.02 above is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  July 12, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
Press Release
For immediate release
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Invesco Ltd.
Announces:
 
 
June 30, 2011 Assets Under Management
  Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call Date and Time
  Income Statement Expense Presentation Change
 
Investor Relations Contact: Jordan Krugman       404-439-4605
Media Relations Contact:     Doug Kidd                404-479-2922
   
 
  
 
 
Atlanta, July 12, 2011
 
June 30, 2011 Assets Under Management
 
Invesco Ltd. (NYSE: IVZ) today reported preliminary month-end assets under management of $653.7 billion, a decrease of 1.2% month over month. The decrease largely resulted from the combined effects of negative market returns and negative foreign exchange. FX decreased AUM by $1.9 billion during the month. Long-term net flows, excluding ETF, UIT and Passive AUM were positive for the month. Total average assets for the quarter were $652.8 billion and average assets excluding ETF, UIT and Passive for the quarter were $559.3 billion.
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call Date and Time
 
Invesco Ltd. will announce its second quarter 2011 results on Tuesday, July 26, 2011 at 7:30 am (ET). A conference call will be held at 9:00 am (ET) to discuss the results.  Those wishing to participate should call:
 
 
 
 
 
A press release and the slides to be used during the presentation will be available on the company Web site at approximately ninety minutes before the call.                                    
www.invesco.com
 
 
Income Statement Expense Presentation Change
 
Invesco Ltd. announced that beginning with the release of the companys earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2011, the company will change the presentation of marketing support expenses from marketing expenses to third-party distribution, service and advisory expenses. The change is intended to provide investors with improved disclosure of third-party distribution and marketing expenses and to allow for better comparison with similar methods of presentation used by peer investment managers.
 
Today's release includes selected quarterly U.S. GAAP operating information for the three months ended March 31, 2011, and quarterly and annual U.S. GAAP operating information for the fiscal years 2010 and 2009 in the new presentation format. The reclassification has no impact on U.S. GAAP total operating expenses, net income, earnings per share, or equity attributable to common shareholders and does not represent a restatement of any previously published financial results.
 
As a result of the change, the companys non-GAAP financial measure of net revenues (and by calculation, net revenue yield on assets under management (AUM) and adjusted operating margin) will change. The reclassification has no impact on non-GAAP adjusted net income or adjusted earnings per share. Todays release includes recalculated amounts for quarterly net revenues and adjusted operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and quarterly and annual net revenues for the fiscal years 2010 and 2009 in the new presentation format.
 
2
 
 
Quarterly U.S. GAAP Operating Information
 
The following is selected unaudited U.S. GAAP operating information for Invesco Ltd. for the quarters indicated. The reclassification has no impact on total operating expenses, net income, earnings per share, or equity attributable to common shareholders.
Reconciliation of Operating Revenues to Net Revenues, as reclassified
____________
 
3
 
Annual U.S. GAAP Operating Information
 
The following is selected U.S. GAAP operating information for Invesco Ltd. for the years indicated. The reclassification has no impact on total operating expenses, net income, earnings per share, or equity attributable to common shareholders.
Reconciliation of Operating Revenues to Net Revenues, as reclassified
____________
Invesco is a leading independent global investment manager, dedicated to helping investors worldwide achieve their financial objectives. By delivering the combined power of our distinctive investment management capabilities, Invesco provides a wide range of investment strategies and vehicles to our retail, institutional and high net worth clients around the world. Operating in more than 20 countries, the company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol IVZ.
 
 
4
 
 


