FILE:BBBY/BBBY-8K-20061222130600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)         
DECEMBER 20, 2006
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
Item 2.02
                                            
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On December 20, 2006, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended November 25, 2006. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit attached hereto) that is being furnished under this Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 8.01               Other Events
The press release issued on December 20, 2006 also contained an announcement by the Company that the Board of Directors of the Company has approved a $1 billion share repurchase program, which authorizes the Company to repurchase shares of its common stock.
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
                                
Exhibits:
99.1
                          
Press Release issued by Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. on December 20, 2006.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. ANNOUNCES
FISCAL THIRD QUARTER 2006 RESULTS
                 
Quarterly Net Sales Increase by 11.8%
                 
Quarterly Net Earnings Increase to $.50 Per Diluted Share
                 
Quarterly Comparable Store Sales Increase by 4.6%
                 
Company to Commence $1 Billion Share Repurchase Program
                 
Fourth Quarter Charge Being Considered to Protect Employees Against
Internal Revenue Code Section 409A Adverse Tax Consequences
UNION, New Jersey, December 20, 2006  today reported net earnings of $.50 per diluted share ($142.4 million) in the fiscal third quarter ended November 25, 2006.  In the fiscal third quarter of 2005, the Company reported net earnings of $.45 per diluted share ($134.6 million).  Net sales for the fiscal third quarter of 2006 were approximately $1.619 billion, an increase of approximately 11.8% from net sales of approximately $1.449 billion reported in the fiscal third quarter of 2005.  Comparable store sales for the fiscal third quarter of 2006 grew by approximately 4.6%, compared with an increase of approximately 3.1% in last year's fiscal third quarter.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
For the fiscal nine months ended November 25, 2006, the Company reported net earnings of $1.36 per diluted share ($388.4 million).  In the comparable nine months a year ago, the Company reported net earnings of $1.25 per diluted share ($374.9 million).  Net sales for the fiscal nine months of 2006 were approximately $4.622 billion, an increase of approximately 12.1% from net sales of approximately $4.124 billion reported in the corresponding period of the prior year.  Comparable store sales for the fiscal nine months increased by approximately 4.8% compared with an increase of approximately 4.0% in last year's fiscal nine months.
The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R) at the beginning of the fiscal third quarter of 2005.  Results for the nine months of 2006 include non-comparable stock-based compensation expenses for the first half of fiscal 2006.
In addition, the Company's Board of Directors is reviewing a program intended to protect over 1,600 employees from certain potential adverse tax consequences. These adverse tax consequences arise pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A as a result of historical issues associated with some of the Company's stock option grants that were disclosed through the Company's stock option review. Although no final determination has been reached by the Board of Directors, the Company anticipates it will incur a non-recurring charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 related to this program. The Company anticipates the potential cash payments pursuant to the program to be approximately $40 million. While the Company is currently reviewing the accounting treatment related to the potential program, the Company anticipates the pre-tax income statement impact in the fourth quarter to be slightly more than the cash payments, with any difference between the cash payments and the associated pre-tax expense to be recorded as an adjustment to Additional Paid-In Capital in the Shareholders' Equity section of the Company's Balance Sheet.  The potential cash outlay primarily represents payments to employees in connection with increasing the exercise prices on certain stock option grants so as to protect them from certain potential adverse tax consequences.  The Company believes it is likely the Company would recoup a substantial portion of any such cash outlay over the next several years through higher proceeds from future stock option exercises, although this recovery would not flow through the income statement. The Company's two Co-Chairmen and CEO have informed the Board that they decline to be considered for payments.
also announced that its Board of Directors has approved a $1 billion share repurchase program, effective today, which authorizes the Company to repurchase shares of its common stock. The Company intends to fund the program from present and expected future excess cash flows. No date has been established for the completion of the program.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
"Our Board took this action based upon its continued confidence in our Company's long-term growth potential, financial outlook and excess cash flow generation" said Steven Temares, Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of Directors.  "In addition to providing value to our shareholders through the $1 billion share repurchase program, our strong operations should allow us to continue to invest in our infrastructure and maintain our flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise."
As of November 25, 2006, the Company operated a total of 868 stores, including 795 stores (33 of which were opened during the fiscal third quarter) in 47 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.  In addition, as of that date, operated 35 stores in 8 states (four of which were opened during the fiscal third quarter) and operated 38 stores in 3 states.  Consolidated store space as of November 25, 2006 was approximately 27.3 million square feet.
Bed Bath &
Beyond
Christmas Tree Shops, Inc.
Harmon Stores, Inc.
During the fiscal fourth quarter of 2006, the Company plans to open approximately 18 stores, one of which has already opened, in both new and existing markets.  These additional openings will bring to approximately 72 the total number of new stores opened in fiscal 2006 and to approximately 813 the number of stores expected to be in operation at fiscal year-end.
Bed Bath
& Beyond
Bed Bath & Beyond
Bed Bath & Beyond
As previously disclosed, the Company continues to cooperate fully with the informal inquiry of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the Company's stock option grant practices.  In addition, the Company is also cooperating fully with the United States Attorney's office for the District of New Jersey in connection with its inquiry into such matters.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a nationwide chain of retail stores, operating under the names of , and .  The Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware and health and beauty care items.  Shares of are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol "BBBY" and are included in the Standard and Poor's 500 and Global 1200 Indices and the NASDAQ-100 Index.  The Company is counted among the Fortune 500 and the Forbes 2000.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
Bed Bath & Beyond
Christmas Tree Shops
Harmon
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements.  Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, assume, continue, project, plan, and similar words and phrases.  The Company's actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Company's control.  Such factors include, without limitation: changes in the retailing environment and consumer preferences and spending habits; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; general economic conditions; unusual weather patterns; competition from existing and potential competitors; competition from other channels of distribution; pricing pressures; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Company's expansion program; and matters arising out of or related to the Company's stock option grants and procedures and related matters, including the outcome of the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC, the possibility that the SEC may not agree with all of the special committee's findings and recommendations and may require additional or different remediation, any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by the SEC or other governmental agencies, any matters arising out of the inquiry commenced by the US Attorney for the District of New
Jersey relating to the Company's stock option grants, any tax implications relating to the Company's stock option grants, the outcome of the shareholder derivative actions filed against certain of the Company's officers and directors, and the possibility of other private litigation relating to such stock option grants and related matters. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
INVESTOR CONTACTS (at 908-688-0888):
 
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the consolidated financial statements to conform with current presentation.
(1)
         
 
(1)   Certain reclassifications have been made to the consolidated financial statements to conform with current presentation.


