FILE:BBBY/BBBY-8K-20070605170705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
              
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Item 5.02
           
On May 31, 2007, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (the "Company") entered into an agreement with Warren Eisenberg, Co-Chairman of the Company, to extend the term of employment under Mr. Eisenberg's employment agreement to June 30, 2010.
On June 4, 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with Leonard Feinstein, Co-Chairman of the Company, to extend the term of employment under Mr. Feinstein's employment agreement to June 30, 2010 and to change the address for notice purposes under the employment agreement.
Except as described above, the employment agreements have not been modified and continue in full force and effect.  A copy of the employment agreements have previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are listed as Exhibits 10.18 and 10.19 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 2, 2002.
Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7.01
           
On June 4, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the forecasted earnings for fiscal first quarter ended June 2, 2007, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
           
Exhibits:
(d)
                                
Press Release issued by Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. on June 4, 2007.
99.1
                          
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
,
the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. FORECASTS NET EARNINGS OF APPROXIMATELY $.36 TO $.38 PER SHARE FOR FISCAL FIRST QUARTER ENDED JUNE 2, 2007
 
UNION, New Jersey, June 4, 2007 --- today announced that it is presently estimating net earnings for the fiscal first quarter ended June 2, 2007 of approximately $.36 to $.38 per diluted share versus $.35 per diluted share as reported in the first quarter last year.  The increase in the Company's comparable store sales for the quarter is estimated to be approximately 1.6% as compared with the planned increase of 3 to 5%.  Net sales for the fiscal quarter (including from the date of acquisition), are estimated to increase by approximately 11% from net sales reported a year ago.  The Company opened six new stores and one new store during the fiscal first quarter.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
buybuy BABY
Bed Bath & Beyond
Christmas Tree Shops
The Company expects to report its actual results for the fiscal first quarter after the close of trading on Wednesday, June 27, 2007, and will update guidance for the full year during its conference call scheduled for 5:00 PM (EDT) on that date. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements or make "pre-announcements" such as that contained in this press release.
Steven H. Temares, Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of Directors of stated, "Based upon what we have experienced and has been reported by others, the overall retailing environment, especially sales of merchandise related to the home, has been challenging.  The efforts of our associates and their ability to execute remain at high levels.  We continue to base our decisions upon what is necessary to achieve our long-term objectives.  While we did not achieve all of our financial goals during our initial fiscal quarter of 2007, we remain optimistic that this year will be our best ever."
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
*    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *
and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a nationwide chain of retail stores, operating under the names of and.  The Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware, health and beauty care items and infant and toddler merchandise.    Shares of are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol "BBBY" and are included in the Standard & Poor's 500 and Global 1200 Indices and the NASDAQ-100 Index.  The Company is counted among the Fortune 500 and the Forbes 2000.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
Bed Bath & Beyond, Christmas Tree Shops, Harmon
buybuy BABY
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
This press release may contain forward-looking statements.  Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, assume, continue, project, plan and similar words and phrases.  The Company's actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Company's control.  Such factors include, without limitation: changes in the retailing environment and consumer preferences and spending habits; demographics and other macro-economic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the
Company; general economic conditions; unusual weather patterns; competition from existing and potential competitors; competition from other channels of distribution; pricing pressures; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Company's expansion program; and matters arising out of or related to the Company's stock option grants and procedures and related matters, including the outcome of the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC, the possibility that the SEC may not agree with all of the special committee's findings and recommendations and may require additional or different remediation, any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by the SEC or other governmental agencies, any matters arising out of the inquiry commenced by the US Attorney for the District of New Jersey relating to the Company's stock option grants, any tax implications relating to the Company's stock option grants, the outcome of the shareholder derivative actions filed against certain of the Company's officers and directors, and the possibility of other private litigation relating to such stock option grants and related matters.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
INVESTOR CONTACTS (at 908/688-0888):
 


