FILE:BBBY/BBBY-8K-20081203152917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
Item 2.02
                                            
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On December 2, 2008, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's estimated net earnings per diluted share for its fiscal third quarter ended November 29, 2008.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit attached hereto) is being furnished under Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01
                                           
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)
                               
Exhibits:
 
99.1
                          
Press Release issued by Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. on December 2, 2008.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. PRESENTLY ESTIMATES NET EARNINGS OF
APPROXIMATELY $.31 TO $.35 PER DILUTED SHARE
FOR FISCAL THIRD QUARTER ENDED NOVEMBER 29, 2008
 
UNION, New Jersey, December 2, 2008  today announced that it is presently estimating net earnings for the fiscal third quarter ended November 29, 2008 of approximately $.31 to $.35 per diluted share.  Net sales for the fiscal third quarter are estimated to have decreased by approximately 0.7% from net sales reported a year ago.  The Company's comparable store sales for the quarter are estimated to have declined by approximately 5.6% as compared with previous guidance of a relatively flat to low single digit decline.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
 
Steven H. Temares, Chief Executive Officer and Member of the Board of Directors of stated, "The overall macroeconomic climate remains challenging, which, combined with liquidation sales of a major competitor, negatively impacted our fiscal third quarter. We continue to focus on our customers and in doing so, seek to further distance ourselves from our competitors.  We also will continue to base our actions on what is prudent under current circumstances and what is in the best long-term interests of our Company, our customers and our shareholders."
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
 
The Company expects to report its actual results for the fiscal third quarter after the close of trading on Wednesday, January 7, 2009, and will update guidance for the fourth quarter and full year fiscal 2008 during its conference call scheduled for 5:00 PM (EST) on that date.  Due to the Thanksgiving holiday occurring one week later this year than last year, the fiscal third quarter sales comparisons had a slight adverse impact.  The fiscal fourth quarter sales comparisons are expected to have a slight benefit due to two additional pre-Christmas shopping days in the fiscal fourth quarter versus last year.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements or make "pre-announcements" such as that contained in this press release.
 
 
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a chain of retail stores, operating under the names of and.  Through a joint venture, the Company also operates two stores in Mexico under the name "."  The Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware, health and beauty care items and infant and toddler merchandise.  Shares of are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol "BBBY" and are included in the Standard and Poor's 500 and Global 1200 Indices and the NASDAQ-100 Index.  The Company is counted among the Fortune 500 and the Forbes 2000.
Bed Bath & Beyond, Christmas Tree Shops, Harmon, Harmon Face Values
buybuy BABY
Home & More
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements.  Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, assume, continue, project, plan, and similar words and phrases.  The Company's actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Company's control. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market and fuel costs; changes in the retailing environment and consumer preferences and spending habits; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; unusual weather patterns; competition from existing and potential competitors; competition from other channels of distribution; pricing pressures; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; the ability to find suitable
locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Company's expansion program; the impact of failed auctions for auction rate securities held by the Company; and matters arising out of or related to the Company's stock option grants and procedures and related matters, including the outcome of the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC, the possibility that the SEC may not agree with all of the special committee's findings and recommendations and may require additional or different remediation, any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by the SEC or other governmental agencies, any tax implications relating to the Company's stock option grants, the outcome of a shareholder derivative action filed against certain of the Company's officers and directors and related matters, and the possibility of other private litigation relating to such stock option grants and related matters.  The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
 
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
 


