FILE:BBBY/BBBY-8K-20080515161848.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 14, 2008, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the formation of a joint venture with Home & More, S.A. de C.V., a privately-held home products retailer operating in Mexico. As a result of a $4 million investment, the Company becomes a 50% equity holder in a newly formed entity currently operating two stores in Mexico City under the name "Home & More," which offer a broad assortment of products for the home including, domestics merchandise, home furnishings and giftware. The Company believes that the Mexican joint venture will not have a material effect on its overall results or financial condition for fiscal 2008.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
UNION, N.J., (May 14, 2008)   Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. today announced the formation of a joint venture with Home & More, S.A. de C.V., a privately-held home products retailer operating in Mexico.  As a result of a $4 million investment, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. becomes a 50% equity holder in a newly formed entity currently operating two stores in Mexico City under the name "Home & More," which offer a broad assortment of products for the home including, domestics merchandise, home furnishings and giftware.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. believes that the Mexican joint venture will not have a material effect on its overall results or financial condition for fiscal 2008.
 
This announcement follows the opening this past year of Bed Bath & Beyond's first international store in Richmond Hill, Ontario, Canada. In addition, Bed Bath & Beyond has signed or is in final documentation for approximately a dozen sites in Canada and is actively negotiating another dozen sites as it looks forward to its expansion throughout the Country.
 
"Following on our successful entry into Canada, we are excited to be entering Mexico with the strong management team of Home & More as our partners.  We believe their depth of retail experience and local knowledge in Mexico supports our partnership's short and long-term prospects for growth within Mexico," stated Steven H. Temares, Chief Executive Officer and a Member of the Board of Directors of Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. He added, "We believe there is a significant opportunity for future growth throughout Mexico."
 
Marc Monsonego, Chief Executive Officer of Home & More, stated, "We are thrilled to partner with Bed Bath & Beyond.  Our management team is eager to combine Bed Bath & Beyond's success  the culture, merchandising strategies and superior customer service  with our proven track record in Mexico."
 
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a chain of retail stores, operating under the names of and. 
Bed Bath & Beyond, Christmas Tree Shops, Harmon, Harmon Face Values
buybuy BABY
The Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware, health and beauty care items and infant and toddler merchandise.  Shares of are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol "BBBY" and are included in the Standard and Poor's 500 and Global 1200 Indices and the NASDAQ-100 Index.  The Company is counted among the Fortune 500 and the Forbes 2000.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements.  Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, assume, continue, project, plan, and similar words and phrases.  The Company's actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Company's control. Such factors include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market and fuel costs; changes in the retailing environment and consumer preferences and spending habits; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; unusual weather patterns; competition from existing and potential competitors; competition from other channels of distribution; pricing pressures; the cost of labor, merchandise and
 
 
 
 
other costs and expenses; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Company's expansion program; the impact of failed auctions for auction rate securities held by the Company; and matters arising out of or related to the Company's stock option grants and procedures and related matters, including the outcome of the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC, the possibility that the SEC may not agree with all of the special committee's findings and recommendations and may require additional or different remediation, any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by the SEC or other governmental agencies, any tax implications relating to the Company's stock option grants, the outcome of a shareholder derivative action filed against certain of the Company's officers and directors and related matters, and the possibility of other private litigation relating to such stock option grants and related matters.
 
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
 
 
 
 
 
 


