FILE:BBBY/BBBY-8K-20080625164008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
On June 25, 2008, Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the Company's financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended May 31, 2008.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K (including the exhibit attached hereto) is being furnished under Item 2.02 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of such section or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. REPORTS NET EARNINGS
FOR FISCAL FIRST QUARTER
 
                 
Net Earnings for Quarter of $.30 per Diluted Share
                 
Quarterly Net Sales Increase by 6.1%
                 
Quarterly Comparable Store Sales Increase by 0.8%
UNION, New Jersey, June 25, 2008  today reported net earnings of $.30 per diluted share ($76.8 million) in the fiscal first quarter ended May 31, 2008, compared with net earnings of $.38 per diluted share ($104.6 million) in the same quarter a year ago. Net sales for the fiscal first quarter of 2008 were approximately $1.648 billion, an increase of approximately 6.1% from net sales of $1.553 billion reported in the fiscal first quarter of 2007. Comparable store sales for the fiscal first quarter of 2008 increased by approximately 0.8%, compared with an increase of approximately 1.6% in last year's fiscal first quarter.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
 
Steven H. Temares, Chief Executive Officer and a Member of the Board of Directors of stated, "We continue to take a long-term approach to our business and work to continue to distance ourselves from our competitors by striving to be our customers' first choice for the products we offer domestically, interactively and over the long-term, internationally. Consistent with this, following our successful entry into Canada in December and the announcement of our expansion plans there, we were very pleased to have  announced in May the formation of a joint venture with Home & More, S.A. de C.V., a privately-held home products retailer operating two stores in Mexico. We are excited to be entering Mexico with the strong management team of Home & More as our partners."
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
 
Also during the fiscal first quarter of 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 0.4 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate cost of approximately $14 million. As of May 31, 2008, the balance remaining of the share repurchase program authorized in September 2007 was approximately $953 million.
 
As of May 31, 2008, the Company operated a total of 981 stores, including 890 stores (9 of which were opened during the fiscal first quarter), in 49 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada. In addition, as of May 31, 2008, operated 41 stores, operated 10 stores (1 of which was opened during the fiscal first quarter) and 40 stores operated under the names of and. Consolidated store space as of May 31, 2008 was approximately 30.4 million square feet. Since the beginning of the fiscal second quarter on June 1, 2008, 2 additional stores have opened.
Bed Bath &
Beyond
Christmas Tree Shops
buybuy BABY
Harmon
Harmon Face Values
Bed Bath & Beyond
and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a chain of retail stores, operating under the names of and. The Company sells a wide assortment of merchandise principally including domestics merchandise and home furnishings as well as food, giftware, health and beauty care items and infant and toddler merchandise. Shares of are traded on NASDAQ under the symbol "BBBY" and are included in the Standard and Poor's 500 and Global 1200 Indices and the NASDAQ-100 Index. The Company is counted among the Fortune 500 and the Forbes 2000.
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
Bed Bath & Beyond, Christmas Tree Shops, Harmon, Harmon Face Values
buybuy BABY
Bed Bath & Beyond Inc.
 
This press release may contain forward-looking statements. Many of these forward-looking statements can be identified by use of words such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, assume, continue, project, plan, and similar words and phrases. The Company's actual results and future financial condition may differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements as a result of many factors that may be outside the Company's control. Such factors
include, without limitation: general economic conditions including the housing market and fuel costs; changes in the retailing environment and consumer preferences and spending habits; demographics and other macroeconomic factors that may impact the level of spending for the types of merchandise sold by the Company; unusual weather patterns; competition from existing and potential competitors; competition from other channels of distribution; pricing pressures; the cost of labor, merchandise and other costs and expenses; the ability to find suitable locations at acceptable occupancy costs to support the Company's expansion program; the impact of failed auctions for auction rate securities held by the Company; and matters arising out of or related to the Company's stock option grants and procedures and related matters, including the outcome of the informal inquiry commenced by the SEC, the possibility that the SEC may not agree with all of the special committee's findings and recommendations and may require additional or different remediation, any other proceedings which may be brought against the Company by the SEC or other governmental agencies, any tax implications relating to the Company's stock option grants, the outcome of a shareholder derivative action filed against certain of the Company's officers and directors and related matters, and the possibility of other private litigation relating to such stock option grants and related matters. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
 
INVESTOR CONTACTS:
 
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
BED BATH & BEYOND INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


