FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20061025163702.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
   
 
The information pursuant to Item 2.02 in this report on Form 8-K is being furnished as contemplated by General Instruction B(2) to Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
 
On October 25, 2006, we announced the results of our operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The complete release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. 
   
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d)
 
Exhibits
 
   
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

            
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHANDLER, Arizona - October 25, 2006 - (NASDAQ: MCHP) - Microchip Technology Incorporated, a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, today reported results for the three months ended September 30, 2006. Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 were $267.9 million, up 2.0% sequentially from $262.6 million in the immediately preceding quarter, and up 17.9% from sales of $227.3 million in the prior years second fiscal quarter. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment at the beginning of the fiscal year 2007. As such, the Company has included additional information in its disclosures to assist shareholders with appropriate comparative information. Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2007, which excludes the effect of all share-based compensation expense, was $84.2 million, or 38 cents per diluted share, up 3.4% from non-GAAP net income of $81.4 million, or 37 cents per diluted share, in the immediately preceding quarter; and up 28.2% from GAAP net income of $65.7 million, or 31 cents per diluted share, in the prior years second fiscal quarter. GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 was $79.5 million or 36 cents per diluted share. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP earnings per share is included as part of this press release.
-- more --
Microchip also announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of 25 cents per share. The quarterly dividend is payable on November 22, 2006 to stockholders of record on November 8, 2006. Microchip initiated quarterly cash dividend payments in the third quarter of fiscal 2003.
Microchip also announced today that its Board of Directors has promoted Mr. Ganesh Moorthy to Executive Vice President of Microchip.
Microchip also announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized a buy-back of up to 10 million shares of Microchip common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The purchases will depend upon market conditions, interest rates and corporate considerations.
In the face of challenging industry conditions, Microchip delivered record results in net sales, operating profit and net income in the September quarter. Net sales for the quarter ended up at approximately the mid-point of our updated guidance which we provided on September 20, 2006, said Steve Sanghi, Microchips President and CEO. As we indicated in that update, the Christmas builds in Asia were delayed from our initial expectations, impacting net sales from our original forecasts. Our factory in Thailand is operating at normal levels post the military coup in that country.
Sixteen-bit microcontrollers achieved 53% growth sequentially and 210% over the year ago quarter, albeit from a small base, said Ganesh Moorthy, Microchips Executive Vice President. Two and one-half years since the start of production, we believe our 16-bit microcontollers have now reached the tipping point. A large number of designs are turning to production, and we expect continued strong growth ahead.
Flash microcontrollers grew 6.7% sequentially and 42.3% over the year ago quarter, and now represent approximately 64% of total microcontroller revenues, added Mr. Moorthy.
Mr. Sanghi continued, Geographically, Asia was our strongest territory in the September quarter, growing approximately 4.5% sequentially, while both Americas and Europe were essentially flat. Europes performance, in the summer vacation quarter, delivered results above normal seasonality.
We achieved record gross margins of 60.45% and non-GAAP operating margins of 36.4% in the September 2006 quarter, Mr. Sanghi added.
--- more --
Sanghi continued, We are also pleased to be increasing our quarterly dividend payment to our shareholders by 6.4% sequentially, to 25 cents per share. The increase in dividends and the 10 million share buy-back authorization announced today continue to evidence Microchips commitment to return value to our shareholders.
Gordon Parnell, Microchips Chief Financial Officer, said, Inventory days on our balance sheet at the end of September, prior to the effects of share-based compensation, were 99 days, down 2 days from the inventory levels at June 30, 2006. Inventory days including the effects of share-based compensation at the end of September were 101 days.
Inventory in the distribution channel at the end of September 2006 was 1.9 months, down from 2.0 months as of the end of June 2006, Mr. Parnell added. Combined channel inventories in support of our customers at the end of September 2006 are at the lowest levels in our business in the last several years.
Mr. Sanghi said, The outlook for the December quarter continues to be challenging. We expect distributors to continue to reduce inventories in response to the industry leadtimes and overall conditions. This was certainly reflected in the book-to-bill ratio for the September quarter, which was 0.94. Although this is normally a stronger quarter for Asia, our customers response to date has been rather muted. Additionally, it is a seasonally weak quarter in the Americas and Europe because of the Christmas holidays.
With all the variables that we are monitoring in our business, we are anticipating revenues to be down approximately 5% in the December quarter. Earnings per share are expected to be about 36 cents on a non-GAAP basis, excluding the effect of share-based compensation. EPS on a GAAP basis is expected to be about 33 cents, Sanghi concluded.
Microchips Recent Highlights:
--- more --
--- more --
Third Quarter Fiscal 2007 Outlook:
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
--- more --
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
SFAS 123(R) requires us to estimate the cost of certain forms of share-based compensation, including employee stock options and awards under our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP Plan), and to record a commensurate expense in the income statement. Share-based compensation expense is a non-cash expense that varies in amount from period to period and is affected by market forces that are difficult to predict and are not within the control of management, such as the price of our common stock.
Accordingly, management excludes this item from its internal operating forecasts and models. We are showing non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP selling, general and administration expenses, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, all of which excludes all share-based compensation expense, to permit additional analysis of our performance. Management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they enhance the understanding of our historical financial performance and comparability between periods. Many of our investors have requested that we disclose this non-GAAP information because they believe it is useful in understanding our performance as it excludes non-cash charges that many investors feel may obscure our true operating costs. Management uses these non-GAAP
measures to manage and assess the profitability of its business and does not consider share-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash charge, in managing its operations. Specifically, we do not consider share-based compensation expense when developing and monitoring budgets and spending. Our determination of the above non-GAAP measures might not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies, and it should not be construed as a substitute for gross margin; research and development expenses; selling, general and administrative expenses; net income and diluted earnings per share determined in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations associated with using non-GAAP measures, including that they exclude financial information that some may consider important in evaluating our performance.
 
 
--- more --
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Updates:
Microchip will host a conference call today, October 25, 2006 at 6:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss this release. This call will be simulcast over the Internet at
www.microchip.com
. The webcast will be available for replay until November 1, 2006.
A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available at approximately 8:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) October 25, 2006 and will remain available until 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on November 1, 2006. Interested parties may listen to the replay by dialing 719-457-0820 and entering access code 3092499.
Cautionary Statement:
The statements in this release relating to 16-bit microcontrollers reaching the tipping point, a large number of 16-bit microcontroller designs turning to production, expected continued strong 16-bit microcontroller growth, that the increase in dividends and the 10 million share buy-back continue to evidence our commitment to return value to our shareholders, the outlook for the December quarter being challenging, our expectation for distributors to continue to reduce inventories, the December quarter normally being stronger for Asia but the response being muted, the December quarter being a seasonally weak quarter for the Americas and Europe, our expectation for revenues to be down approximately 5%, for non-GAAP EPS of approximately 36 cents and GAAP EPS of approximately 33 cents for the quarter ending December 31, 2006 quarter, the continued strong acceptance of Microchips products, and the statements containing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance (as applicable) for the quarter ending December 31, 2006 with respect to net sales, gross margins, operating expenses, tax rate, earnings per diluted share, days of inventory, capital expenditures for the quarter ending December 31, 2006 and for fiscal 2007, net cash generation and future stock repurchases are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially, including, but not limited to: changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy short-term orders from our inventory; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity; our ability to continue to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity; competitive developments including pricing pressures; the level of orders
that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; foreign currency effects on our business; costs and outcome of any current or future tax audit or any litigation
involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; disruptions in our business or the businesses of our customers or suppliers due to natural disasters, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system; and general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally.
For a detailed discussion of these and other risk factors, please refer to Microchip's filings on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. You can obtain copies of Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other relevant documents for free at Microchips Web site (
www.microchip.com
) or the SEC's Web site (
www.sec.gov
) or from commercial document retrieval services.
Stockholders of Microchip are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements are made. Microchip does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or new information after this October 25, 2006 press release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
About Microchip:
Microchip Technology Inc. is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, providing low-risk product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide. Headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Microchip offers outstanding technical support along with dependable delivery and quality. For more information, visit the Microchip Web site at
www.microchip.com
.


