FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20071023164127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information pursuant to Item 2.02 in this report on Form 8-K is being furnished as contemplated by General Instruction B(2) to Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for  purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
 
On October 23, 2007, we announced the results of our operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.  The complete release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
-2-
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
-3-
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHANDLER, Arizona  October 23, 2007   (NASDAQ: MCHP)  Microchip Technology Incorporated, a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, today reported results for the three months ended September 30, 2007.  Net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 were $258.6 million, down 2.1% sequentially from sales of $264.1 million in the immediately preceding quarter, and down 3.5% from sales of $267.9 million in the prior years second quarter.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment at the beginning of fiscal year 2007.  As such, the Company has included additional non-GAAP information in its disclosures to assist shareholders with appropriate comparative information.  GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was $60.7 million, or 27 cents per diluted share, down 24.4% from GAAP net income of $80.3 million, or 36 cents per diluted share, in the immediately preceding quarter, and down 23.7% from GAAP net income of $79.5 million, or 36 cents per diluted share, in the prior years second quarter.
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
Non-GAAP net income for the second quarter of fiscal 2008 was $83.3 million, or 38 cents per diluted share, down 3.9% from non-GAAP net income of $86.7 million, or 39 cents per diluted share, in the immediately preceding quarter, and down 1.0% from non-GAAP net income of $84.2 million, or 38 cents per share, in the prior years second quarter.  Non-GAAP results exclude the loss associated with the sale of Fab 3 in Puyallup, Washington, and the effect of share-based compensation.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP and GAAP results is included in this press release.
 
Microchip also announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of 31 cents per share.  The quarterly dividend is payable on November 20, 2007 to stockholders of record on November 6, 2007.  Microchip initiated quarterly cash dividend payments in the third quarter of fiscal 2003.
Our fiscal second quarter results were in line with the lower guidance that we provided on October 8, said Steve Sanghi, Microchips President and CEO.  Revenues were down sequentially 2.1% at $258.6 million.  GAAP earnings per share were 27 cents.  Non-GAAP earnings per share, before share-based compensation and the sale of Fab 3, were 38 cents; one cent below our original guidance.
Our results in the September quarter were adversely impacted by weakness in the U.S. housing market, and weakness in other segments of our consumer-related business, continued Mr. Sanghi.  Geographically, our Asia region was flat quarter-to-quarter, while the Americas region was down 1% sequentially.  Both were lower than our original expectations based on the market conditions I indicated.  Europe was down 5.8% sequentially, due to the seasonal effects in that region, and were in line with our expectations for the quarter.
Mr. Sanghi stated, In spite of the sequential revenue decline, gross margins on a non-GAAP basis were 60.4%, at near record levels for the business.
Mr. Sanghi continued, Based on our revised capacity assessment of our production wafer fabs in Tempe, Arizona and Gresham, Oregon, plus our expected access to outside foundries, we have approximately $2.5 billion of available annual revenue capacity.  Our sale of Fab 3, which was completed on October 19, 2007, is expected to positively impact future gross and operating margins and increases available cash balances.  In particular, gross margins are expected to improve by approximately 60 basis points on a full quarter equivalent.  We believe that opportunities will be available to add to our wafer fab production requirements on a cost-effective basis when required by our business, to supplement our existing capacity.
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
Revenues for 16-bit products increased over 6% sequentially in the September quarter, and the number of volume customers grew over 13% sequentially.  We believe our 16-bit design-in momentum is evident in the record development tool shipments of 13,349 in the first six months of fiscal year 2008  almost three times the number of development tools sold in the first six months of fiscal year 2007, said Ganesh Moorthy, Executive Vice President.
Mr. Moorthy added, Revenue from Flash-based microcontrollers also grew by 1% sequentially in the September quarter, to a record revenue of $148 million.  The drop in revenue in microcontrollers in the September quarter was from our older, one-time programmable (OTP) products.  We have not developed any new OTP products in over five years, and all of our new investments have gone into Flash-based products.  Our OTP products were designed into many legacy end products in the U.S. housing and consumer markets, where the majority of our revenue decline occurred.
Mr. Gordon Parnell, Microchips Chief Financial Officer said, Days of inventory on our balance sheet increased two days in the September quarter to 109 days.  Cash generation remained strong, achieving $119.6 million in net cash generation for the quarter ending September 30, 2007.
Mr. Parnell continued, We are pleased to increase our cash dividend by 5.1% sequentially to 31 cents per share.  This increase continues to indicate to investors our commitment to dividends as the principal vehicle to return cash to our shareholders.
During the quarter ended September 30, 2007, we used cash from treasury in the amount of $150.2 million to purchase four million shares of our stock in open market transactions.  To date, during the current quarter ending December 31, 2007, we have used cash from treasury in the amount of $28.6 million to repurchase approximately 900,000 shares of our stock in open market transactions.  We intend to continue to evaluate purchasing our stock in open market transactions opportunistically, Mr. Parnell concluded.
Mr. Sanghi concluded, Our book-to-bill ratio for the September quarter was 0.94.  The December quarter is seasonally challenged, due to fewer production and shipping days in the quarter.  We anticipate that customer shutdowns related to the consumer area of our business will intensify that effect.  We anticipate sequential revenue to be flat to down 6% in the December quarter.  Earnings per share on a GAAP basis are expected to be approximately 34 to 37 cents, and earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis, excluding the effects of share-based compensation and a favorable tax settlement, are expected to be approximately 35 to 38 cents per share.
 
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
 
Microchips Recent Highlights:
 
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2008 Outlook:
The following statements are based on current expectations.  These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
SFAS 123(R) requires us to estimate the cost of certain forms of share-based compensation, including employee stock options and awards under our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP Plan), and to record a commensurate expense in our income statement.  Share-based compensation expense is a non-cash expense that varies in amount from period to period and is affected by market forces that are difficult to predict and are not within the control of
management, such as the price of our common stock.  Our sale of Fab 3 in Puyallup, Washington is a one-time event in our business.  Accordingly, management excludes these items from its internal operating forecasts and models.
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
We are using non-GAAP profit and gross margin, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP selling, general and administration expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, all of which excludes share-based compensation expense, the sale of Fab 3 in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, and an anticipated tax benefit in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 related to a Foreign tax settlement, to permit additional analysis of our performance.  Management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they enhance the understanding of our historical financial performance and comparability between periods.  Many of our investors have requested that we disclose this non-GAAP information because they believe it is useful in understanding our performance as it excludes non-cash and other special charges that many investors feel may obscure our true operating costs.  Management uses these non- GAAP measures to manage and assess the profitability of its business and does not consider share-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash charge, in managing its operations.  Specifically, we do not consider share-based compensation expense when developing and monitoring budgets and spending.  The economic substance behind our decision to exclude share-based compensation relates to these charges being non-cash in nature.  The exclusion of tax events and our sale of Fab 3 in our non-GAAP disclosures are based on the non-recurring nature of these events.  Our determination of the above non-GAAP measures might not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies, and it should not be construed as a substitute for gross margin; research and development expenses; selling, general and administrative expenses; operating income; net income and diluted earnings per share determined in accordance with GAAP.  There are limitations associated with using non-GAAP measures, including that they exclude financial information that some may consider important in evaluating our performance.  Management compensates for this by presenting information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis for investors and providing reconciliations of the GAAP and non-GAAP results.
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GROSS MARGIN TO NON-GAAP GROSS MARGIN
 
RECONCILIATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES TO NON-GAAP
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES
RECONCILIATION OF SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES TO
NON-GAAP SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING MARGIN TO NON-GAAP OPERATING MARGIN
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME AND DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE TO NON-GAAP
NET INCOME AND NON-GAAP DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE
 
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
Conference Call and Updates:
Microchip will host a conference call today October 23, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss this release.  This call will be simulcast over the Internet at .  The webcast will be available for replay until October 30, 2007.
www.microchip.com
A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available at approximately 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) October 23, 2007 and will remain available until 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on October 30, 2007.  Interested parties may listen to the replay by dialing 719-457-0820 and entering access code 4174515.
Cautionary Statement:
The statements in this release relating to our expected access to outside foundries, $2.5 billion of available revenue capacity, the sale of Fab 3 positively impacting gross and operating margins, gross margin improvement, our belief that cost effective opportunities will be available to supplement capacity when required by our business, our 16-bit design-in momentum, our commitment to dividends as the principal vehicle to return cash to shareholders, repurchasing Microchip stock opportunistically, the December quarter being seasonally challenged, customer shutdowns related to the consumer area of our business, sequential revenue to be flat to down 6% in the December quarter, GAAP EPS of 34 to 37 cents per diluted share and non-GAAP EPS of 35 to 38 cents per diluted share for the December quarter, continued strong acceptance of our products, and the statements containing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance (as applicable) for the quarter ending December 31, 2007 with respect to net sales, gross margin, operating expenses, tax rate, earnings per diluted share, days of inventory, capital expenditures for the quarter ending December 31, 2007 and for fiscal 2008, and net cash generation are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially, including, but not limited to:  changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy short-term orders from our inventory; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity; our ability to continue to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity; competitive developments including pricing pressures; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; foreign currency effects on our business; costs and
outcome of any current or future tax audit or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; disruptions in our business or the businesses of our customers or suppliers due to natural disasters, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system; and general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally.
 
 
- - more - -
 
 
For a detailed discussion of these and other risk factors, please refer to Microchip's filings on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.  You can obtain copies of Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other relevant documents for free at Microchips Web site (www.microchip.com) or the SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) or from commercial document retrieval services.
Stockholders of Microchip are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements are made.  Microchip does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or new information after this October 23, 2007 press release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
About Microchip:
Microchip Technology Inc. is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, providing low-risk product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide.  Headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Microchip offers outstanding technical support along with dependable delivery and quality.  For more information, visit the Microchip Web site at .
www.microchip.com
 
- - end - -
 


