FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20070426164239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information pursuant to Item 2.02 in this report on Form 8-K is being furnished as contemplated by General Instruction B(2) to Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
 
On April 26, 2007, we announced the results of our operations for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. The complete release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 9.01.
 
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d)
 
Exhibits
 
 
-2-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
-3-
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHANDLER, Arizona - April 26, 2007 - (NASDAQ: MCHP) - Microchip Technology Incorporated, a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, today reported results for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. Net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 were
$258.2 million, up 2.9% sequentially from sales of $251 million in the immediately preceding quarter, and up 4.5% from sales of $247.2 million in the prior years fourth quarter. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment at the beginning of fiscal year 2007. As such, the Company has included additional non-GAAP information in its disclosures to assist shareholders with appropriate comparative information. GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was a record $127.7 million, or 57 cents per diluted share, up 75.3% from GAAP net income of $72.8 million, or 33 cents per diluted share, in the immediately preceding quarter, and up 69.0% from GAAP net income of $75.6 million, or 35 cents per diluted share in the prior years fourth quarter. Non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 was $81.3 million, or 37 cents per diluted share, up 3.3% from non-GAAP net income of $78.7 million, or 36 cents per diluted share, in the immediately preceding quarter, and up 7.6% from GAAP net income of $75.6 million, or 35 cents per share, in the prior years fourth quarter. Non-GAAP results exclude a tax benefit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 related to a tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service and the effect of share-based compensation expense. A reconciliation of non-GAAP and GAAP results is included in this press release.
Net sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 were $1,039.7 million, an increase of 12% from net sales of $927.9 million in the prior fiscal year. On a GAAP basis, net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was $357 million, or $1.62 per diluted share, an increase of 47% from net income of $242.4 million, or $1.13 per diluted share in the prior year.
On a non-GAAP basis, net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007 was $325.6 million or $1.48 per diluted share, an increase of 19.3% from net income of $273 million, or $1.27 per diluted share in the prior year. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for fiscal year 2006 excludes a tax charge related to repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and for fiscal 2007 excludes a tax benefit related to a tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service and the effect of share-based compensation expense. A reconciliation of non-GAAP and GAAP results is included in this press release.
Microchip also announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of 28 cents per share. The quarterly dividend is payable on May 24, 2007 to stockholders of record on May 10, 2007. Microchip initiated quarterly cash dividend payments in the third quarter of fiscal 2003.
The results for the March quarter exceeded our guidance and demonstrated the continuing strength of our proprietary products. Net sales of our proprietary microcontroller products increased by 4% sequentially. Our Flash microcontroller product sales were even stronger, and grew 7% sequentially, reaching record levels. Additionally, our 16-bit microcontroller product sales were up 41% sequentially, said Steve Sanghi, Microchips President and CEO. Gross margins on a non-GAAP basis achieved new record levels for the Company, at 60.5%. Earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis also exceeded our guidance.
Mr. Sanghi stated, We are also very pleased to have exceeded a billion dollars in sales in fiscal 2007 for the first time. We also achieved record cash generation from the business of $470 million during fiscal 2007. Both measures are important results from the proprietary product positioning and the excellent profitability of our business.
We have now received confirmation from Dataquests published report that Microchip is, for the first time, the #1 supplier of 8-bit microcontrollers in dollars, based on the results of calendar year 2006. With continued momentum from new product introductions and record development system shipments, we look to further extend our leadership position in the embedded control markets in future years, said Ganesh Moorthy, Executive Vice President.
Mr. Gordon Parnell, Microchips Chief Financial Officer said, Inventory days on hand as of the March quarter end, prior to the effect of share-based compensation, were 105 days, a decrease of 3 days from inventory levels at December 31, 2006. Inventory in the distribution channel also declined to 1.8 months at March 31, from 1.9 months as of December 2006.
Mr. Parnell added, Included in the results of fiscal year 2007 is a tax benefit of $52.2 million related to the closure of tax events from previous years. Based on the results of these events and our forecast information for fiscal 2008, we are reducing our effective tax rate from 24% utilized in fiscal 2007, to 20% for fiscal 2008.
Mr. Sanghi said, We anticipate revenue growth of about 5% sequentially in the June quarter, with GAAP earnings per diluted share of 37 cents. EPS on a non-GAAP basis, excluding the effect of share-based compensation, is expected to be approximately 40 cents per diluted share.
As we are moving into a stronger period for Microchip in the June and September quarters, we are taking appropriate actions to ramp production levels in both our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities, Mr. Sanghi concluded.
Microchips Recent Highlights:
 
MCP2030 Low-RF Demodulator 2006 Product of the Year for Best Low-Frequency RF Control Device. In their annual survey, Embedded Systems Designs readership ranked Microchip #1 in the category of Who is your primary 8-bit microcontroller vendor?.
First Quarter Fiscal 2008 Outlook:
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
SFAS 123(R) requires us to estimate the cost of certain forms of share-based compensation, including employee stock options and awards under our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP Plan), and to record a commensurate expense in our income statement. Share-based compensation expense is a non-cash expense that varies in amount from period to period and is affected by market forces that are difficult to predict and are not within the control of management, such as the price of our common stock. Accordingly, management excludes this item from its internal operating forecasts and models.
We are showing non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP selling, general and administration expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, all of which excludes share-based compensation expense, a tax charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 related to repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and a tax benefit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 related to a tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service, to permit additional analysis of our performance. Management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they enhance the understanding of our historical financial performance and comparability between periods. Many of our investors have requested that we disclose this non-GAAP information because they believe it is useful in understanding our performance as it excludes non-cash and other special charges that many investors feel may obscure our true operating costs. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to manage and assess the profitability of its business and does not consider share-based compensation expense, which is a non-cash charge, in managing its operations. Specifically, we do not consider share-based compensation expense when developing and monitoring budgets and spending. The economic substance behind our decision to exclude share-based compensation relates to these charges being non-cash in nature. The exclusion of tax events in our non-GAAP disclosures are based on the non-recurring nature of these events. Our determination of the above non-GAAP measures might not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies, and it should not be construed as a substitute for gross margin; research and development expenses; selling, general and administrative expenses; operating income; net income and diluted earnings per share determined in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations associated with using non-GAAP measures, including that they exclude financial information that some may consider important in evaluating our performance. Management compensates for this by presenting information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis for investors and providing reconciliations of the GAAP and non-GAAP results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GROSS PROFIT TO NON-GAAP GROSS PROFIT
RECONCILIATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES TO NON-GAAP
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES
RECONCILIATION OF SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES TO
NON-GAAP SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
 
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME TO NON-GAAP OPERATING INCOME
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE TO NON-GAAP
NET INCOME AND NON-GAAP DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
Conference Call and Updates:
Microchip will host a conference call today April 26, 2007 at 6:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss this release. This call will be simulcast over the Internet at
www.microchip.com
. The webcast will be available for replay until May 3, 2007.
A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available at approximately 8:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) April 26, 2007 and will remain available until 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on May 3, 2007. Interested parties may listen to the replay by dialing 719-457-0820 and entering access code 7845591.
 
Cautionary Statement:
The statements in this release relating to the continuing strength of our proprietary products, continued momentum from new product introductions, further extending our leadership position in the embedded control markets in future years, reducing our effective tax rate to 20.0% for fiscal 2008, revenue growth of about 5% sequentially in the June quarter, GAAP EPS of 37 cents per diluted share and non-GAAP EPS of 40 cents per diluted share for the June quarter, the June and September quarters being stronger periods for Microchip, our ramp of production levels in both our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities, our expectation of shipping our two billionth Flash microcontroller this quarter, the industrys continued acceptance of our PIC microcontrollers, conversion to Flash microcontrollers growing at a strong pace, the continued strong acceptance of our products, and the statements containing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance (as applicable) for the quarter ending June 30, 2007 with respect to net sales, gross margins, operating expenses, tax rate, earnings per diluted share, days of inventory, capital expenditures for the quarter ending June 30, 2007 and for fiscal 2008, and net cash generation are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially, including, but not limited to: changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy short-term orders from our inventory; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity; our ability to continue to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity; competitive developments including pricing pressures; the level of orders
that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; foreign currency effects on our business; costs and outcome of any current or future tax audit or any litigation involving intellectual property,
 
customers or other issues; disruptions in our business or the businesses of our customers or suppliers due to natural disasters, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system; and general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally.
For a detailed discussion of these and other risk factors, please refer to Microchip's filings on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. You can obtain copies of Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other relevant documents for free at Microchips Web site (www.microchip.com) or the SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) or from commercial document retrieval services.
Stockholders of Microchip are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements are made. Microchip does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or new information after this April 26, 2007 press release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
About Microchip:
Microchip Technology Inc. is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, providing low-risk product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide. Headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Microchip offers outstanding technical support along with dependable delivery and quality. For more information, visit the Microchip Web site at
www.microchip.com
.


