FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20081215171519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events
 
On December 15, 2008, Microchip Technology Incorporated () issued a press release with respect to its delivery to Atmel Corporation () of the required written notice regarding Microchips director nominations for Atmels 2009 annual meeting.  The press release is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Microchip
Atmel
 
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
2 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
4 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ: MCHP) today announced that it has delivered to Atmel Corporation (NASDAQ: ATML) the written notification required to be delivered under Atmels bylaws in connection with Microchips proposal of an alternate slate of directors at Atmels next annual meeting of shareholders.  Under Atmels bylaws, all nominations of directors and proposals with respect to other business to be conducted at Atmels 2009 annual meeting must be notified in writing to Atmel no later than December 16, 2008.
Chandler, Arizona, December 15, 2008
Steve Sanghi, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of Microchip said, We have delivered the written notification that is a requirement under Atmels bylaws in order to preserve Microchips flexibility as we evaluate our alternatives with respect to a potential transaction with Atmel.  We believe these highly qualified and experienced nominees will act in the best interests of all Atmel shareholders if elected to Atmels Board of Directors.  However, in light of the general deterioration of the business and financing environments and the worsening business conditions in the semiconductor industry in particular, Microchip cannot provide any assurances that it will pursue a transaction with Atmel or, if it does pursue such a transaction, what the terms may be.
Microchip notified Atmel that it is nominating the following candidates for election to Atmels board of directors:
 
Since May 2004, Mr. Brooks has served as a Director of Xyratex Ltd., a NASDAQ-listed provider of enterprise-class data storage subsystems and storage infrastructure manufacturing equipment and automation solutions.  Mr. Brooks is also currently a director of e2v Technologies plc, a LSE-listed designer and supplier of specialized components and sub-systems that enable the worlds leading systems companies to deliver innovative solutions for medical and science, aerospace and defense, and commercial and industrial markets, and Aveva Group plc, a LSE-listed engineering IT software provider to the plant, power and marine industries.  In addition, Mr. Brooks is the Chairman of Picochip Inc., a private-equity backed company developing semiconductor solutions for wireless applications, and a Director of Sophos Plc, an enterprise IT security and control company.  Mr. Brooks holds a Bachelors Degree in Economic and Social Science from the University of Wales and an M.B.A. from the University of Manchester and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
 
 
 
 
 
 
From August 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Casey served as a Director of Sipex Corporation, a designer, manufacturer and marketer of analog integrated circuits.  Mr. Casey holds a Bachelors Degree in Applied Science  Mechanical Engineering from the University of Ottawa and an M.B.A. from the University of Ottawa.
 
 
Since June 2001, Mr. Everett has served as a Director of FormFactor, Inc., a NASDAQ-listed leader in developing and applying microelectromechanical systems contact technology to advanced probe card designs.  Mr. Everett also currently serves on the board of directors of NetXen, Inc., a Silicon Valley company focused in high performance networking and protocol processing.  Mr. Everett holds a Bachelors Degree in Business Administration from New Mexico State University and an honorary Doctorate of Laws degree from New Mexico State University.
 
 
Mr. Hackworth currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cirrus Logic, a position he has held since July 1997, and he has served on the Cirrus Logic board since 1985.  Mr. Hackworth is also a director of Virage Logic Corporation, a NASDAQ-listed provider of semiconductor intellectual property for the design of complex integrated circuits, and Epicor Software Corporation, a NASDAQ-listed global leader dedicated to providing integrated enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, supply chain management and professional service automation software solutions to midmarket companies and divisions of Global 1000 companies.  Mr. Hackworth holds a Bachelors Degree in Engineering from University of Santa Clara.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Dr. Pepper was a founding member and previously Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Fabless Semiconductor Association (now the Global Semiconductor Alliance).  Dr. Pepper remains as director emeritus of GSA.  In addition, from January 2003 to March 2008, Dr. Pepper was Chairman of the Board of Directors of KeyEye Communications, Inc., a fabless semiconductor company, and from August 2003 to February 2006, Dr. Pepper was Chairman of the Board of Directors of Varatouch Technology Inc., a company providing solutions to companies that employ computer and electronic output technology, which was acquired by Atrua Technologies, Inc. in February 2006.  Dr. Pepper also served as a Director of Silicon Optix, a company that sold its video processing technology and related assets to Integrated Device Technology, Inc. in October 2008.
 
Dr. Pepper was a professor at U.C. Berkeley from 1961 to 1964 after receiving his B.S.EE, M.S.EE, and Ph.D.EE from that institution.  For almost twenty (20) years, Dr. Pepper was chairman of the college advisory board for Engineering at U.C. Berkeley.  Dr. Pepper currently remains a member of that board.  Dr. Pepper also is on the advisory board of the UC Davis Center for Health and Technology.
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
Mr. Rieper currently serves as treasurer and executive board member of the Yankee Clipper Council, Boy Scouts of America and is a founding member and current president of its Eagle Scout Association.  A retired Naval Reserve Captain, Mr. Rieper is president of the Navy Supply Corps Officers of Greater Boston.  Mr. Rieper holds a B.S. in Business Administration from Lehigh University and a M.B.A from Columbia University.
 
 
Since October 2004, Mr. Sukawaty has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xyratex Ltd., a NASDAQ-listed provider of enterprise-class data storage subsystems and storage infrastructure manufacturing equipment and automation solutions.  Mr. Sukawaty is also a non-executive director of Zesko Holding B.V., the holding company for the Ziggo cable operator.  Mr. Sukawaty holds a B.B.A. from the University of Wisconsin and an M.B.A. from the University of Minnesota.
 
In addition to these nominations, Microchip notified Atmel that it intends to seek stockholder approval at the Atmel 2009 annual meeting of certain amendments to Atmels bylaws, including limitations on any amendments to Atmels bylaws after May 14, 2008 (the last date of publicly reported changes to the bylaws), unless they are approved by its stockholders.
 
 
 
4
 
About Microchip Technology
Microchip Technology Incorporated (NASDAQ: MCHP) is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, providing low-risk product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide.  Headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Microchip offers outstanding technical support along with dependable delivery and quality.  For more information, visit Microchips website at www.microchip.com.
Forward Looking Statements
Statements in this press release, including those regarding Microchips nomination of directors for election at Atmels 2009 annual meeting, Microchips intention to propose other business at Atmels 2009 annual meeting and Microchips evaluation of its potential alternatives for pursuing a transaction with Atmel, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions help identify forward looking statements.  These forward looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect the current expectations of Microchips management, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict.  Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements because of factors such as: the possibility that Microchip will withdraw its nomination of directors and its proposed bylaw amendments prior to Atmels 2009 annual meeting; the possibility that Microchip will not pursue a transaction with Atmel; the possibility that any future proposal by Microchip to acquire Atmel will be rejected by Atmels board of directors or shareholders; the possibility that, even if Microchip commences a future proposal to acquire Atmel, Microchip will be unable to reach agreement on the terms of the sale of certain Atmel assets with third parties, Microchip will not be able to satisfy closing conditions in any definitive agreement, or the transaction will not close or that the closing may be delayed; the effect of the announcement of any proposal on each of Microchips and Atmels strategic relationships, operating results and businesses generally, including the ability to retain key employees; Microchips ability to successfully integrate Atmels operations and employees; general economic conditions; and other factors described in Microchips SEC filings (including Microchips Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008).  If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, Microchip may not pursue a transaction with Atmel, any proposed acquisition may not be consummated, the potential benefits of any acquisition may not be realized, Microchips and/or Atmels operating results and financial performance could suffer, and actual results could differ materially from the expectations described in these forward-looking statements.  All information in this press release is as of December 15, 2008.  Microchip undertakes no duty to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
 
 
 
5
 
 
Important Additional Information
This communication is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval or a solicitation of an offer to sell any securities.  MICROCHIP CURRENTLY INTENDS TO FILE A PRELIMINARY PROXY STATEMENT WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (THE SEC) RELATING TO MICROCHIPS POSSIBLE SOLICITATION OF PROXIES FROM THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ATMEL FOR USE AT THE 2009 ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS.  ALL ATMEL SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ SUCH PROXY STATEMENT FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN ITS ENTIRETY WHEN AND IF IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE ABLE TO OBTAIN FREE COPIES OF ANY SUCH PROXY STATEMENT FILED WITH THE SEC BY MICROCHIP AT WWW.MICROCHIP.COM AND THROUGH THE WEB SITE MAINTAINED BY THE SEC AT WWW.SEC.GOV.  FREE COPIES OF ANY SUCH PROXY STATEMENT CAN ALSO BE OBTAINED BY DIRECTING A REQUEST TO MICROCHIPS PROXY SOLICITOR, MACKENZIE PARTNERS, INC. AT (650) 798-5206.
Microchip and its directors and executive officers and other persons could be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of Atmel in connection with the election of directors and other matters.  As of the date hereof, Microchip beneficially owns approximately 4.4% of Atmels outstanding common stock.  Information regarding Microchips directors and executive officers is available in Microchips SEC filings (including Microchips Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and its Proxy Statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders).  Other information regarding the participants in any proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests will be contained in any proxy statement filed by Microchip with the SEC when and if it becomes available.
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
 


