FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20080905161403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On September 3, 2008, Microchip Technology Incorporated (Microchip) announced the retirement of Gordon Parnell as its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective as of December 31, 2008.
Upon the effective date of Mr. Parnells retirement, December 31, 2008, J. Eric Bjornholt will serve as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Microchip.  Mr. Bjornholt has worked at Microchip since 1995.  In particular, he has served as Microchips Vice President of Finance since April 2008 and as Director of Financial Reporting and Tax from August 2003 to April 2008.  Mr. Bjornholt has also served as Secretary of Microchip since May 2003.  Prior to joining Microchip, Mr. Bjornholt worked for the independent public accounting firm KPMG LLP.  Mr. Bjornholt is 38 years old.  Mr. Bjornholt is a certified public accountant, has an undergraduate degree in accounting from the University of Arizona and a Masters degree from Arizona State University.  In his role as Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Bjornholt will also serve as Microchips Chief Accounting Officer are no related party transactions between Mr. Bjornholt and Microchip as described in Item 404(a) of Regulation SK.
. There are no family relationships among Mr. Bjornholt and any directors or other executive officers of Microchip.  There
Mr. Parnell will continue to serve as the Microchips Chief Financial Officer until the effective date of his retirement.
 
-2- 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
-3- 
 


