FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20081203193843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events
Steve Sanghi, President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Microchip Technology Incorporated () will be participating tomorrow, December 4, 2008, in the Credit Suisse First Boston Financial Conference.  The prepared statement of Mr. Sanghi to be delivered at the conference includes the following:
Microchip
As a result of deteriorating business conditions in the semiconductor industry, several negative pre-announcements from other semiconductor suppliers and our own market intelligence, we believe that Atmels business has deteriorated substantially since we initially proposed to acquire Atmel.  Because of these developments as well as ON Semiconductors withdrawal from our proposed transaction, Microchip can no longer justify a purchase price of $5 per share for Atmel.
Microchip continues to evaluate its alternatives with respect to a possible transaction with Atmel, including potential financing sources and disposition strategies for the Atmel businesses Microchip does not want to operate on a long-term basis.  However, given the deterioration of the business and financing environments and the other factors described above, there is no assurance that Microchip will make a new offer for Atmel or, if Microchip does, what the terms of any such offer may be.
Statements in this report, including those regarding Microchips continued evaluation of its potential alternatives for pursuing a transaction without ON Semiconductor, may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions help identify forward looking statements.  These forward looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect the current expectations of Microchips management, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict.  Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements because of factors such as: the possibility that Microchip will not continue to pursue a transaction with Atmel; the possibility that any future proposal by Microchip to acquire Atmel will be rejected by Atmels board of directors or shareholders; the possibility that, even if Microchip makes a future proposal to acquire Atmel, Microchip will be unable to obtain the financing necessary to complete a transaction or will be unable reach agreement on the terms of the sale of certain Atmel assets with third parties, Microchip will not be able to satisfy closing conditions in any definitive agreement, or the transaction will not close or that the closing may be delayed; the effect of the announcement of any proposal on each of Microchips and Atmels strategic relationships, operating results and businesses generally, including the ability to retain key employees; Microchips ability to successfully integrate Atmels operations and employees; general economic conditions; and other factors described in Microchips SEC filings (including Microchips Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008).  If any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, Microchip may not continue to pursue a transaction with Atmel, any proposed acquisition may not be consummated, the potential benefits of any acquisition may not be realized, Microchips and/or Atmels operating results and financial performance could suffer, and actual results could differ materially from the expectations described in these forward-looking statements.  All information in this report is as of December 3, 2008.  Microchip undertakes no duty to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
This report is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval or a solicitation of an offer to sell any securities.  MICROCHIP MAY FILE A PROXY STATEMENT WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (THE )
SEC
 
 
2
 
 
RELATING TO MICROCHIPS POSSIBLE SOLICITATION OF PROXIES FROM THE SHAREHOLDERS OF ATMEL FOR USE AT THE 2009 ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS.  ALL ATMEL SHAREHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ ANY SUCH PROXY STATEMENT FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN ITS ENTIRETY WHEN AND IF IT BECOMES AVAILABLE BECAUSE IT WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.
SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE ABLE TO OBTAIN FREE COPIES OF ANY SUCH PROXY STATEMENT FILED WITH THE SEC BY MICROCHIP AT WWW.MICROCHIP.COM AND THROUGH THE WEB SITE MAINTAINED BY THE SEC AT WWW.SEC.GOV.  FREE COPIES OF ANY SUCH PROXY STATEMENT CAN ALSO BE OBTAINED BY DIRECTING A REQUEST TO MICROCHIPS PROXY SOLICITOR, MACKENZIE PARTNERS, INC. AT (650) 798-5206.
Microchip and its directors and executive officers and other persons could be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders of Atmel in connection with the election of directors and other matters.  As of the date hereof, Microchip beneficially owns approximately 4.4% of Atmels outstanding common stock.  Information regarding Microchips directors and executive officers is available in Microchips SEC filings (including Microchips Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008 and its Proxy Statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders).  Other information regarding the participants in any proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests will be contained in any Proxy Statement filed by Microchip with the SEC when and if it becomes available.
On December 3, 2008, Microchip issued a press release announcing Mr. Sanghis participation in the Credit Suisse First Boston Financial Conference.  The press release is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
3 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
4 
 
 
 
5 
 

 
 
INVESTOR RELATIONS CONTACT:
Deborah Wussler  (480) 792-7373
CHANDLER, Arizona  December 3, 2008 -- (NASDAQ:MCHP)  Microchip Technology Incorporated, a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, announced today that the Company will present at the Credit Suisse Annual Technology Conference on Thursday, December 4, 2008, at 11:00 a.m. (Mountain Time).  Presenting for the Company will be Mr. Steve Sanghi President and Chief Executive Officer.  A live webcast and replay of the presentation will be made available by CSFB, and can be accessed on the Microchip website at.  The replay of the webcast will be available for a period of 7 days following the presentation.
 
www.microchip.com
Any forward looking statements made during the presentation are qualified in their entirety by the complete discussion of risks set forth in the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Copies of Forms 10-K and 10-Q and any other relevant documents can be obtained for free at the SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) or from commercial document retrieval services.
Microchip Technology Inc. is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, providing risk-free product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide.  Headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Microchip offers outstanding technical support along with dependable delivery and quality.  For more information, visit the Microchip website at .
www.microchip.com
 
 
 


