FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20080124165023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                   Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information pursuant to Item 2.02 in this report on Form 8-K is being furnished as contemplated by General Instruction B(2) to Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for  purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
 
On January 24, 2008, we announced the results of our operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2007.  The complete release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.                   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto
duly authorized.
 
3
 
4

 
MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY ANNOUNCES NET SALES AND
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHANDLER, Arizona  January 24, 2008   (NASDAQ: MCHP)  Microchip Technology Incorporated, a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, today reported results for the three months ended December 31, 2007.  Net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 were $252.6 million, down 2.3% sequentially from net sales of $258.6 million in the immediately preceding quarter, and up 0.6% from net sales of $251.0 million in the prior years third quarter.  The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004) Share-Based Payment at the beginning of fiscal year 2007.  As such, the Company has included additional non-GAAP information in its disclosures to assist shareholders with appropriate comparative information.  GAAP net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 was $80.1 million, or 38 cents per diluted share, up 32.0% from GAAP net income of $60.7 million, or 27 cents per diluted share, in the immediately preceding quarter, and up 10.0% from GAAP net income of $72.8 million, or 33 cents per diluted share, in the prior years third quarter.
 
Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2008 was $81.2 million, down 2.5% from non-GAAP net income of $83.3 million in the immediately preceding quarter, and up 3.1% from non-GAAP net income of $78.7 million in the prior years third quarter.  Non-GAAP earnings per share were a record 39 cents per diluted share in the third quarter of fiscal 2008, compared to 38 cents per diluted share in the immediately preceding quarter and 36 cents per diluted share in the prior years third quarter.  Non-GAAP results exclude a one-time favorable event related to the resolution of a foreign tax matter and the effect of share-based compensation.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP and GAAP results is included in this press release.
Microchip also announced today that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of 32 cents per share.  The quarterly dividend is payable on February 21, 2008 to stockholders of record on February 7, 2008.  Microchip initiated quarterly cash dividend payments in the third quarter of fiscal 2003.
In difficult business conditions, we achieved net sales of $252.6 million, down 2.3% sequentially, and slightly better than the mid-point of our guidance, said Steve Sanghi, Microchips President and CEO.  Despite the industry conditions, we achieved record gross margins of 61.2% on a non-GAAP basis and 60.6% on a GAAP basis.  We also met the high end of our EPS guidance for GAAP and non-GAAP results of 38 and 39 cents, respectively.
As expected, Asia was the only geography to grow sequentially in the December quarter.  Both the Americas and Europe were more significantly impacted by seasonal factors in the quarter as well as economic factors, continued Mr. Sanghi.
Mr. Sanghi stated, Shipments of development tools continued at very strong levels in the December quarter, achieving record levels of shipments of 28,722 in the quarter, with worldwide cumulative shipments of over 599,000.
While overall revenues for microcontrollers were down approximately 1% sequentially, revenues were up approximately 1.5% from the year ago quarter, said Ganesh Moorthy, Executive Vice President.  Sixteen-bit microcontrollers had another strong quarter with revenues up 28% sequentially and up 138% from the year ago quarter.
Mr. Moorthy added, Flash microcontroller revenues achieved a new record, and were also up 10% over the year ago quarter.  These results culminated in the shipment of our 6 billionth microcontroller in late December.
 
Mr. Gordon Parnell, Microchips Chief Financial Officer, said, Inventory on our balance sheet was essentially unchanged at the end of December in dollar terms, representing approximately 114 days of inventory.  Inventory in the distribution channel was approximately 1.9 months of inventory.  Overall, we remain comfortable with the levels of inventory supporting our business.
Mr. Parnell continued, Cash generation from operations of $131 million in the December quarter reflects the strong gross and operating margins of the business, as well as excellent working capital management.  Cash generation from operations excludes the dividend payment to investors of $66.4 million, $814.6 million which was used to buy back stock, and the proceeds of our junior subordinated convertible debt transaction of $1,127 million.  Cash generation for all of fiscal 2008 will be approximately $480 million.  The cornerstone of our commitment to return value to shareholders through increasing dividends was again reflected in the dividend increase to 32 cents announced today.  The strength of our business model is also demonstrated by the fact that we are at record gross margin and earnings levels while at a low point in revenues for this business cycle.
Mr. Sanghi concluded, Market conditions for the March quarter include consideration of the seasonal effects of the Lunar New Year holidays in Asia.  Our book-to-bill for the December quarter was 1.02, and the overall opening backlog position for the March quarter was significantly higher than at the beginning of the December quarter.  We expect sales to be down 2% to up 4% in the March quarter, based on current information.  EPS on a GAAP basis is expected to be 35 to 38 cents, and non-GAAP EPS is expected to be approximately 39 to 42 cents.
Microchips Recent Highlights:
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2008 Outlook:
statements are based on current expectations.  These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.
The following
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
SFAS 123(R) requires us to estimate the cost of certain forms of share-based compensation, including employee stock options and awards under our employee stock purchase plan (
ESPP Plan), and to record a commensurate expense in our income statement.  Share-based compensation expense is a non-cash expense that varies in amount from period to period
and is affected by market forces that are difficult to predict and are not within the control of management, such as the price of our common stock.  Our sale of Fab 3 in Puyallup, Washington
and the tax benefit related to the resolution of a foreign tax matterare non-recurring events in our business.  Accordingly, management excludes these items from its internal operating forecasts and models.
 
We are using non-GAAP profit, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP selling, general and administration expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP
net income, and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, which excludes share-based compensation expense, the sale of Fab 3 in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, and a tax benefit in
the
third quarter of fiscal 2008 related to the resolution of a foreign tax matter, to permit additional analysis of our performance.  Management believes these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors because they enhance the understanding of our historical financial performance and comparability between periods.  Many of our investors have requested that
we disclose this non-GAAP information because they believe it is useful in understanding our performance as it excludes non-cash and other special charges that many investors
feel may obscure our true operating costs.  Management uses these non- GAAP measures to manage and assess the profitability of its business.  Specifically, we do not consider share-based
 
compensation expense when developing and monitoring budgets and spending.  The economic substance behind our decision to exclude share-based compensation relates to these charges being non-cash in nature.  The exclusion of favorable tax events and our sale of Fab 3 in our non-GAAP disclosures are based on the non-recurring nature of these events.  
Our determination of the above non-GAAP measures might not be the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies, and it should not be construed as a substitute for
gross margin; research and development expenses; selling, general and administrative expenses; operating income; net income and diluted earnings per share determined in accordance with GAAP.  There are limitations associated with using non-GAAP measures, including that they exclude financial information that some may consider important in evaluating our performance.  Management compensates for this by presenting information on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis for investors and providing reconciliations of the GAAP and
non-GAAP results.
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GROSS MARGIN TO NON-GAAP GROSS MARGIN
RECONCILIATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES TO NON-GAAP
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES
RECONCILIATION OF SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES TO
NON-GAAP SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME TO NON-GAAP OPERATING INCOME
RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME AND DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE TO
NON-GAAP NET INCOME AND NON-GAAP DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE
 
Conference Call and Updates:
Microchip will host a conference call today January 24, 2008 at 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) to discuss this release.  This call will be simulcast over the Internet at .  
www.microchip.com
The webcast will be available for replay until January 31, 2008.
A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available at approximately 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) January 24, 2008 and will remain available until 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on
January 31, 2008.  Interested parties may listen to the replay by dialing 719-457-0820 and entering access code 8652924.
Cautionary Statement:
The statements in this release relating to remaining comfortable with the levels of inventory supporting our business, cash generation in fiscal 2008, our commitment to return cash
to shareholders through increasing dividends, a low point in revenues for this business cycle, the strength of our business model, the seasonal effects of the Lunar New Year holidays
in Asia, sequential revenue to be down 2% to up 4% in the March quarter, GAAP EPS and non-GAAP EPS for the March quarter, continued strong acceptance of our products and
the statements containing our GAAP and non-GAAP guidance (as applicable) for the quarter ending March 31, 2008 with respect to net sales, gross margin, operating expenses,
tax rate, earnings per diluted share, days of inventory, capital expenditures for the quarter ending March 31, 2008 and for fiscal 2008, and net cash generation are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; foreign currency effects on our business; costs and outcome of any current or future tax audit
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially, including, but not limited to:  changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and the products of our customers; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy short-term orders from our inventory; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity; our ability to continue to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity; competitive developments including pricing pressures; the level of orders
or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; disruptions in our business or the businesses of our customers or suppliers due to natural disasters,
 
terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system; and general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally.
For a detailed discussion of these and other risk factors, please refer to Microchip's filings on Forms 10-K and 10-Q.  You can obtain copies of Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other relevant documents for free at Microchips Web site (www.microchip.com) or the SEC's Web site (www.sec.gov) or from commercial document retrieval services.
Stockholders of Microchip are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements are made.  Microchip does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or new information after this January 24, 2008 press release, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
About Microchip:
Microchip Technology Incorporated is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, providing low-risk product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide.  Headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Microchip offers outstanding technical support along with dependable delivery and quality.  For more information, visit the Microchip Web site at .
www.microchip.com


