FILE:MCHP/MCHP-8K-20090210164801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events
 
On February 10, 2009, Microchip Technology Incorporated issued a press release announcing it is terminating consideration of the potential acquisition of Atmel Corporation.  The press release is attached to this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
-2- 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
-3- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4- 
 

CHANDLER, Arizona  February 10, 2009  (NASDAQ: MCHP)  Microchip Technology Incorporated, a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, today announced that it is terminating its consideration of a potential transaction with Atmel Corporation (NASDAQ: ATML) and is withdrawing the slate of directors it had nominated previously for election at Atmels next annual meeting of shareholders.
The global economy and the semiconductor business environment have deteriorated significantly since Microchip first made an offer of $5 per share on October 1, 2008.  Based on actual results and Atmels first quarter 2009 guidance, Atmels revenue will have declined more than 30% since then and the company is expected to lose money.  In light of the economic uncertainty and the lack of visibility that continues to exist with respect to Atmels business, Microchip is no longer able to put a value on Atmel.  Microchip will therefore terminate consideration of a potential acquisition of Atmel, said Steve Sanghi, President, CEO and Chairman of Microchip.
Microchip Technology Incorporated is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors, providing low-risk product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide.  Headquartered in Chandler, Arizona, Microchip offers outstanding technical support along with dependable delivery and quality.  For more information, visit the Microchip Web site at www.microchip.com.
 
 
 


