Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. See Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Mattels consolidated financial statements for all periods present the Consumer Software segment as a discontinued operation. See Discontinued Operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates only to Mattels continuing operations. In February 2003, Mattel announced the consolidation of its US Girls and US Boys Entertainment segments into one segment, renamed Mattel Brands US. Additionally, Pleasant Company, which was previously part of the US Girls segment, is now a separate segment for management reporting purposes. The results of Pleasant Company are now reported as American Girl Brands and US Infant & Preschool are now reported as Fisher Price Brands US for segment purposes. To facilitate the comparison of current year segment results to that of the prior years, segment disclosures for 2002 and 2001 have been restated to reflect these changes. Overview Mattel designs, manufactures, and markets a broad variety of toy products worldwide through sales to retailers and wholesalers (i.e., customers) and directly to consumers. Mattels business is dependent in great part on its ability each year to redesign, restyle and extend existing core products and product lines, to design and develop innovative new products and product lines, and to successfully market those products and product lines. Mattel plans to continue to focus on its portfolio of traditional brands that have historically had worldwide appeal, to create new brands utilizing its knowledge of childrens play patterns and to target customer and consumer preferences around the world. Mattel also intends to expand its core brands through the Internet and licensing and entertainment partnerships. Mattels portfolio of brands and products are grouped in the following categories: Mattel Brands including Barbie&reg; fashion dolls and accessories (Barbie&reg;), Polly Pocket! and ello (collectively Other Girls Brands), Hot Wheels&reg;, Matchbox&reg; and Tyco&reg; R/C vehicles and playsets (collectively Wheels) and Nickelodeon&reg;, Harry Potter, Yu Gi Oh!, He Man&reg; and Masters of the Universe&reg;, Batman, Justice League, and games and puzzles (collectively Entertainment). Fisher Price Brands including Fisher Price&reg;, Power Wheels&reg;, Sesame Street&reg;, Little People&reg;, Disney preschool and plush, Winnie the Pooh, Rescue Heroes, Barney, See N Say&reg;, Dora the Explorer, PowerTouch and View Master&reg;. American Girl Brands including American Girl Today&reg;, The American Girls Collection&reg; and Bitty Baby&reg;. American Girl Brands products are sold directly to consumers and its childrens publications are sold to certain retailers. During 2003, there were several factors that had a negative impact on Mattels revenue in the US, including increased competition in the doll and various boys toys categories, a weak economy, retail consolidation and aggressive retail pricing. In addition, management believes that its fourth quarter and full year 2003 results were negatively affected by a shift in consumer purchases to later in the holiday season and increased purchase of gift cards. This shift in the timing of consumer purchases compared to prior years changed the re order pattern of Mattels products by retailers during the holiday season. When consumers purchase toys in October or November, retailers are typically inclined to re order more toys to restock their shelves for the holiday season. However, when consumers buy products late in December or purchase gift cards that will be used after the holidays, retailers have less incentive to refill their shelves with holiday products. Mattels management expects that some or all of these factors may continue in 2004 and may have an impact on future results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Despite the challenges the company is experiencing, Mattel improved its income from continuing operations in 2003 compared to 2002. To optimize its business and mitigate the impact of the aforementioned challenges, Mattel continues to focus on the following strategic priorities: Core brands focusing on traditional core brand categories, extending product lines, initiating core brand promotional programs and targeting profitable licensing arrangements. Channels strengthening relationships with retailers, developing new retail channels, providing quality service to customers and optimizing its supply chain. Costs controlling costs to help mitigate the impact of anticipated rising commodity, transportation, employee benefits, and insurance costs. Cash generating and opportunistically deploying cash using a disciplined approach. Mattel has announced plans to increase its focus on revenue growth in 2004. Mattel plans to implement value enhancement strategies aimed at strengthening its core brands, including invigorating the Barbie&reg; brand and expanding its interactive learning toys category. Management intends to re establish the Barbie&reg; brand into content driven product lines pursuant to a worlds of strategy in which stories will be told through movies, books, magazines and music. Product lines, including dolls and accessories, will be created to complement these stories. The eight worlds of Barbie&reg; to be introduced in 2004 will be geared to different age segments in an attempt to maintain the brands broad appeal among girls and their parents. For instance, for the younger girls, there will be stories and products with a fantasy theme such as princesses and fairies, while for older girls, the My Scene line will include the launch of a full length DVD accompanied by a product line that targets fashion play and shopping. In the interactive learning toys category, Mattel plans to introduce new toys designed specifically for children at different developmental stages, from infancy through grade school. While there is no guarantee, management believes that these initiatives will promote revenue growth. In recent years, Mattel has been able to grow net income faster than the rate of revenue growth through successful cost cutting initiatives. In 2004, Mattel will continue to focus on new cost cutting initiatives, but management believes revenue growth will likely be necessary to achieve financial results similar to those of recent years. Additionally, Mattel intends to continue its emphasis on globalization of its brands and management believes the reorganization in the first quarter of 2003, which combined the US Girls and US Boys Entertainment segments under the Mattel Brands US segment, should allow Mattel to better globalize its brands through optimizing the strengths and leveraging the talents of personnel managing the brands on a global basis. The International segment continued to benefit from Mattels strategic focus on globalization of brands, including improved product availability and better alignment of worldwide marketing and sales plans. Management intends to continue focusing on maintaining a high level of business performance in the eight geographies that currently represent approximately 75% of Mattels International segment: United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Northern Europe, Canada, and Mexico. Management believes maintaining a high level of business performance in these geographies gives Mattel a greater degree of freedom to be opportunistic in markets where its business is smaller and less developed. Management expects that this strategy should enable Mattel to seek opportunities in smaller and less developed markets, while maintaining stability in these larger markets. Mattels long term goal is to generate 50% of its sales in markets outside of the US by continuing to grow its international business at a higher rate than in the US. However, management believes that while International segment sales growth will continue to be strong, it will be difficult to maintain the same level of sales growth increases in the International segment that Mattel has achieved during the last three years, especially if the value of the US dollar reverses its current trend and strengthens against the major foreign currencies. 17 Table of Contents Results of Continuing Operations 2003 Compared to 2002 Consolidated Results Net income for 2003 was $537.6 million, or $1.22 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $230.1 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for 2002. Net income for 2003 included a pre tax charge of $26.3 million ($20.0 million after tax) related to the financial realignment plan. In 2003, Mattel also recognized pre tax income of $7.9 million ($5.0 million after tax) representing an adjustment resulting from updated estimates related to amounts accrued in 1999 associated with the closure of a manufacturing facility in Beaverton, OR. The combined effect of these items was a net after tax charge of $15.0 million for 2003. In the first quarter of 2002, Mattel implemented Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and recorded a transition adjustment of $252.2 million, net of tax, as the cumulative effect of change in accounting principles resulting from the transitional impairment test of the American Girl Brands goodwill. In the third quarter of 2002, Mattel recorded a $27.3 million after tax gain from discontinued operations related to the sale of Learning Company. In 2002, Mattel also incurred a pre tax charge of $48.3 million ($31.9 million after tax) related to the financial realignment plan. The combined effect of these items was a net after tax charge of $256.8 million for 2002. Overall in 2003, Mattels results of operations benefited from changes in currency exchange rates. Net sales in 2003 grew 2% compared to 2002, including a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points. Earnings per share included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of approximately $0.03 per diluted share. While Mattel enters into hedges to limit the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations, management cannot predict the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, favorable or unfavorable, on future results of operations. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The following table provides a summary of Mattels consolidated results for 2003 and 2002 (in millions, except percentage and basis point information): For the Year 2003 2002 Year / Year Change Amount % of NetSales Amount % of NetSales % Basis Pointsof Net Sales Net sales $ 4,960.1 100.0 % $ 4,885.3 100.0 % 2 % Gross profit $ 2,429.5 49.0 % $ 2,361.0 48.3 % 3 % 70 Advertising and promotion expenses 636.1 12.8 552.5 11.3 15 % 150 Other selling and administrative expenses 1,002.9 20.3 1,050.3 21.5 (5 )% (120 ) Restructuring and other charges 4.8 0.1 24.6 0.5 (80 )% (40 ) Operating income 785.7 15.8 733.6 15.0 7 % 80 Interest expense 80.6 1.6 113.9 2.3 Interest (income) (18.9 ) (0.4 ) (17.7 ) (0.3 ) Other non operating (income) expense, net (16.8 ) (0.3 ) 15.9 0.3 Income from continuing operations before income taxes $ 740.8 14.9 % $ 621.5 12.7 % 19 % 220 Net sales for 2003 were $4.96 billion, a 2% increase compared to $4.89 billion in 2002. Worldwide gross sales for 2003 increased 1%, which included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. Gross sales within the US decreased 6% from 2002 and accounted for 60% of consolidated gross sales in 2003 compared to 64% in 2002. The decline in gross sales within the US reflects the challenging retail environment and competition in key categories. In 2003, gross sales in international markets increased 15% compared to 2002. The growth in international gross sales included a benefit from changes in currency exchange rates of 10 percentage points. 18 Table of Contents During the fourth quarter of 2003, Mattel changed the way certain close out sales are classified in its consolidated statement of operations. Close out sales are sales of certain products that are no longer included in current product lines. Effective October 1, 2003, close out sales previously classified as a reduction of cost of sales are now classified as net sales in Mattels consolidated statements of operations. This change in classification has no impact on gross profit, net income, income per common share, balance sheets or cash flows for any period. For the fourth quarter of 2003, close out sales, which are included in the reported net sales, were $19.2 million representing 1 percentage point of sales growth for the quarter and 40 basis points of sales growth for the year. For the first three quarters of 2003 and for 2002, close out sales classified as a reduction of cost of sales were $38.1 million and $112.7 million, respectively. See Item 6 Selected Financial Data and 
 
