Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. See Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Overview Mattel designs, manufactures and markets a broad variety of toy products worldwide through sales to its customers and directly to consumers. Mattels business is dependent in great part on its ability each year to redesign, restyle and extend existing core products and product lines, to design and develop innovative new products and product lines, and to successfully market those products and product lines. Mattel plans to continue to focus on its portfolio of traditional brands that have historically had worldwide appeal, to create new brands utilizing its knowledge of childrens play patterns and to target customer and consumer preferences around the world. Mattels portfolio of brands and products are grouped in the following categories: Mattel Girls & Boys Brands including Barbie&reg; fashion dolls and accessories (Barbie&reg;), Polly Pocket!, Pixel Chix,Winx Club and Disney Classics (collectively Other Girls Brands), Hot Wheels&reg;, Matchbox&reg; and Tyco&reg; R/C vehicles and playsets (collectively Wheels) and Batman, CARS, Superman, Radica:&reg; products, and games and puzzles (collectively Entertainment). Fisher Price Brands including Fisher Price&reg;, Little People&reg;, BabyGear and View Master&reg; (collectively Core Fisher Price&reg;), Sesame Street&reg;, Dora the Explorer, Go Diego Go!, Winnie the Pooh, InteracTV and See N Say&reg; (collectively Fisher Price&reg; Friends) and Power Wheels&reg;. American Girl Brands including Just Like You, the historical collection and Bitty Baby&reg;. American Girl Brands products are sold directly to consumers and its childrens publications are also sold to certain retailers. 25 Table of Contents On October 10, 2005, Mattel announced the consolidation of its domestic Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher Price Brands divisions into one division. The creation of the Mattel Brands division, which resulted in the consolidation of some management and support functions, preserves the natural marketing and design groups that are empowered to create and market toys based on gender and age groups and is expected to more effectively and efficiently leverage Mattels scale. These changes are consistent with Mattels ongoing goals to enhance innovation and improve execution. In connection with this consolidation, Mattel executed an initiative in 2006 to streamline its workforce, primarily in El Segundo, California. The consolidation of these divisions did not change Mattels operating segments. Management believes that the business environment for Mattel in 2007 will be similar to that of 2006. Mattel expects to continue facing challenges both domestically and internationally as retailers continue to tightly manage inventory. Additionally, Mattel has experienced continued cost pressures in the areas of product costs, including oil based resin and zinc, and employee related costs. Management believes that Mattel will continue to encounter a challenging retail environment, along with cost pressures and the possibility of sales declines in the Barbie&reg; brand. Mattels objective is to continue to create long term shareholder value by generating strong cash flow and deploying it in a disciplined and opportunistic manner as outlined in Mattels capital and investment framework. To achieve this objective, management has established three overarching goals. The first goal is to enhance innovation in order to reinvigorate the Barbie&reg; brand, while maintaining growth in other core brands by continuing to develop popular toys. Additionally, Mattel plans to pursue additional licensing arrangements and strategic partnerships to extend its portfolio of brands into areas outside of traditional toys. The second goal is to improve execution in areas including manufacturing, distribution and selling. In 2006, Mattel is continuing to focus on improving the efficiency of its supply chain using Lean supply chain initiatives. The objective of the Lean program is to improve the flow of processes, do more with less and focus on the value chain from beginning to end. The third goal is to further capitalize on Mattels scale advantage. For example, as the worlds largest toy company, Mattel believes it can realize cost savings when making purchasing decisions based on a One Mattel philosophy. Results of Operations 2006 Compared to 2005 Consolidated Results Net sales for 2006 were $5.65 billion, a 9% increase compared to $5.18 billion in 2005, including a 1 percentage point benefit from changes in currency exchange rates. Net income for 2006 was $592.9 million, or $1.53 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $417.0 million, or $1.01 per diluted share, for 2005. Gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, increased to 46.2% in 2006 from 45.8% in 2005. The increase in gross profit was driven by price increases and savings from supply chain initiatives, which were partially offset by unfavorable mix, external cost pressures and higher royalty costs. Income before income taxes as a percentage of net sales declined to 12.1% in 2006 from 12.6% in 2005. Contributing to this decline were higher selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales and lower other non operating income, partially offset by higher gross margins and lower advertising expenses as a percentage of net sales. Higher selling and administrative expenses were primarily attributed to increased incentive compensation accruals, stock based compensation including a pre tax charge of $19.3 million for prior 26 Table of Contents period unintentional stock option accounting errors (see 
 
