ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Except for historical information, the discussion in this report contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. The cautionary statements made in this report should be read as applying to all related forward looking statements wherever they appear in this report. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed in " Factors Affecting Operating Results" below as well as those discussed elsewhere. OVERVIEW We design, manufacture, and market the da Vinci Surgical System, an advanced surgical system that we believe represents a new generation of surgery. The da Vinci Surgical System consists of a surgeons console, a patient side cart, a high performance vision system and proprietary instruments. The da Vinci Surgical System seamlessly translates the surgeons natural hand movements on instrument controls at a console into corresponding micro movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small puncture incisions, or ports. We believe that the da Vinci Surgical System is the only commercially available technology that can provide the surgeon with the intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and 3 D visualization characteristic of open surgery, while simultaneously allowing the surgeon to work through the small ports of minimally invasive surgery, or MIS. By placing computer enhanced technology between the surgeon and the patient, we believe that the da Vinci Surgical System enables surgeons to perform better surgery while giving patients the benefits of MIS, including decreased trauma and postoperative pain, reduced surgical complications, shorter hospital stays and lower total treatment costs. In 1999, we obtained permission from the European Union to affix the CE Mark to the da Vinci Surgical System and EndoWrist instruments for general surgical and cardiac surgical use. Based on this approval, we recognized revenue for the first time in the second quarter of 1999 for the sale of our products. In July 2000, we received clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, to begin commercialization of our da Vinci Surgical System in the United States for use in laparoscopic surgical procedures. In March 2001, we received clearance from the FDA for use of our da Vinci Surgical System in non cardiac thoracoscopic surgical procedures. In May 2001, we received market clearance from the FDA to promote use of the da Vinci Surgical System for performance of laparoscopic radical prostatectomy procedures. In November 2002, we received clearance from the FDA for use of the da Vinci Surgical System in thoracoscopically assisted cardiotomy procedures. In January 2003, we began promoting atrial septal defect closure surgery under the November 2002 cardiotomy clearance. To date, the majority of our revenues have come from the sales of the da Vinci Surgical System, which are high revenue dollar items. A smaller percentage of revenues have come from sales of EndoWrist instruments and accessories, which are lower revenue dollar items. A small percentage of revenue also comes from ongoing service of installed da Vinci Surgical Systems. Although we expect the majority of our revenues to continue to come from the sale of da Vinci Surgical Systems over the next few years, we believe that the percentage of revenue from our EndoWrist instruments and service will continue to increase. Due to the high dollar revenue per system sold, small variations in system unit sales may cause revenue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. During the useful life of each installed da Vinci Surgical System, we expect to generate recurring revenue through sales of the EndoWrist instruments and accessories and ongoing service. The percentage of revenue derived from recurring instrument, accessory, and service revenue has grown from 12% in 2000 to 14% in 2001 and to 21% in 2002. PROPOSED MERGER On March 7, 2003, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Computer Motion, Inc. Pursuant to the merger agreement, a wholly owned subsidiary of our company will merger with Computer Motion, with Computer Motion surviving the merger and continuing as a wholly owned subsidiary of our company. In connection with the proposed merger, we have entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Computer Motion pursuant to which we have agreed to provide a short term secured bridge loan facility of up to $7.3 million. Computer Motion may use the facility to pay off existing indebtedness and to fund operations prior to completion of the merger. This facility terminates and all outstanding amounts become due, subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of specified events. Interest on the facility will accrue at a rate of 8% per annum and will be payable on the maturity date. We expect that we and Computer Motion will hold our respective stockholders meetings at which matters related to the merger will be submitted for approval in June 2003. Management anticipates that the combined companies will be able to achieve annual pre tax cost savings of approximately $18 million commencing in late 2003. A significant portion of those savings will result from a substantial reduction in headcount. Intuitive Surgicals ability to achieve these goals is subject to economic conditions and unanticipated changes in business conditions, and therefore there can be no assurance that these results will be achieved. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Sales. Sales for the year ended December 31, 2002 were $72.0 million, up 39% from $51.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily the result of the sale of 60 systems during 2002, compared to 49 systems during 2001. Total system revenue for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $56.9 million, compared to $44.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2001. The average system selling price, or ASP, was $948,000 in 2002, compared to $912,000 in 2001, reflecting the impact of a 2002 U.S. list price increase and a higher concentration of sales in the higher ASP U.S. market. System unit sales by region in 2002 were 50 in the U.S., 6 in Europe, and 4 in the rest of the world, compared to 2001 system unit sales of 31 in the U.S., 16 in Europe, and 2 in the rest of the world. Also contributing to the revenue increase was continued growth in recurring instrument, accessory, and service revenue. The 2002 recurring revenue increased by $8.1 million, or 116%, to $15.1 million, compared to $7.0 million in 2001 as cumulative placements of systems grew from 89 at December 31, 2001 to 149 at December 31, 2002. Sales for the year ended December 31, 2001 of $51.7 million were up 94% from $26.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The sales increase was primarily due to an increase in the number of da Vinci Surgical Systems sold to 49 in 2001 from 28 in 2000. Gross Profit. Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $37.4 million, or 52% of sales, compared to $23.5 million, or 45% of sales, in 2001 and $8.6 million, or 32% of sales, in 2000. The year to year improvements in gross profit resulted from higher system ASP increased manufacturing efficiencies and improved contribution from customer service operations. In addition, 2001 and 2000 gross profit were both negatively impacted by a $1.0 million non routine royalty charge that became due to IBM when we exceeded $50.0 million in annual revenue in 2001 and $25.0 million in 2000. Excluding the impact of this charge, 2001 gross profit would have been $24.5 million, or 47% of sales, and 2000 gross profit would have been $9.6 million, or 36% of sales. The 2001 royalty payment represented the final royalty obligation under our agreement with IBM. Research and Development Expenses. The 2002 research and development costs were $16.8 million, up 21% from $13.9 million in 2001. The increase was primarily due to headcount related increases of $1.5 million, more clinical trial costs of $900,000, higher prototype material and project costs of $400,000, and higher facilities costs of $400,000, offset by lower deferred compensation amortization of $600,000. The 2001 research and development expenses of $13.9 million were up 18% from $11.7 million in 2000. The increase was due to higher prototype material and project costs of $1.4 million and headcount related increases of $1.0 million. Research and development expenses include costs associated with the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products. These enhancements represent significant improvements to our products. Research and development expenses also include expenditures for clinical trials and purchases of laboratory supplies. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect to continue to make substantial investments in research and development and anticipate that research and development expenses will continue to increase in the future. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2002 were $40.9 million, up 36% from $30.0 million for 2001. The year over year increase was due in large part to support increased revenue and a larger installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems. Specifically, salaries and fringe benefits increased $5.6 million, travel and entertainment increased $1.6 million, and customer training and lab costs increased $1.7 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses were also higher in 2002 due to increased legal expenses of $1.5 million, unauthorized purchases of administrative supplies of $900,000, and facilities charges of $300,000, offset by lower depreciation of $400,000 and deferred compensation expense of $300,000. Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2001 of $30.0 million were $10.9 million higher than the 2000 expenses of $19.1 million. This increase was primarily due to headcount increases resulting from growing sales and marketing activities as the da Vinci Surgical System received FDA clearance in 2000. Selling, general and administrative expenses include personnel costs for sales, marketing and administrative personnel, tradeshow expenses, legal expenses, regulatory fees and general corporate expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses are expected to increase in the future to support our expanding business. Deferred Compensation. We record deferred compensation as the difference between the exercise price of options granted and the fair value of our common stock at the time of grant for financial reporting purposes. Deferred compensation is amortized to research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, we recorded amortization of deferred stock compensation of $700,000, $1.6 million, and $2.6 million, respectively. For 2002, 2001 and 2000, non cash deferred compensation expense included in research and development expenses was $400,000, $1.0 million, and $1.9 million, respectively. For 2002, 2001 and 2000 non cash deferred compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expenses was $300,000, $600,000, and $700,000, respectively. Deferred compensation recorded through December 31, 2002 was $8.9 million with accumulated amortization of $8.7 million. The remaining $200,000 is scheduled to be amortized during the first half of 2003. Interest Income. Interest income was $2.0 million, $3.9 million, and $4.3 million for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The decreases resulted primarily from decreasing cash and short term investment balances over the period and lower interest rates earned on cash and short term investment balances in 2002. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Prior to our initial public offering, we financed our operations primarily through sales of our preferred stock, yielding net proceeds of approximately $127.3 million, and equipment financing arrangements yielding approximately $6.5 million. Subsequently, our equipment financing arrangements yielded approximately $4.0 million. In June and July 2000, we completed the initial public offering of 5,750,000 shares of our common stock and realized net proceeds of approximately $46.8 million. As of December 31, 2002, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $50.8 million, compared to $66.7 million at December 31, 2001 and $89.4 million at December 31, 2000. Working capital at December 31, 2002 was $52.6 million, compared to $67.9 million at December 31, 2001 and $83.8 million at December 31, 2000. The decreases in cash and investments and working capital were primarily attributable to cash used to fund operating losses and to acquire fixed assets. Net cash used in operating activities was $14.1 million for 2002, compared to $18.5 million for 2001 and $12.8 for 2000. The decrease in cash used in operations during 2002 compared to 2001 primarily reflects lower working capital requirements in 2002, primarily caused by increased collection of accounts receivable and higher accrued expense balances consisting mainly of accrued legal costs and accrued compensation, offset by lower accrued royalties. The increase in cash used in operations during 2001 compared to 2000 primarily reflects higher working capital requirements in 2001, primarily caused by the growth in our receivable balances due to increased sales over the prior period. Net cash provided by investing activities was $18.2 million for 2002, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $5.6 million in 2001 and net cash used by investing activities of $50.8 in 2000. In 2002 and 2001 cash provided by investing activities resulted primarily from the net conversion of short term investments into cash to support operations. The cash used in investing activities in 2000 related primarily to the purchase of short term investments with the net proceeds from our initial public offering. Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.0 million for 2002, compared to $800,000 for 2001 and $82.2 million for 2000. In 2002 cash provided by financing activities resulted from proceeds from the issuance of common stock (resulting mainly from the employee stock purchase plan and the exercise of stock options) for $2.1 million and net long term equipment financing proceeds of $1.0 million. In 2001 cash provided by financing resulted from proceeds from the issuance of common stock $2.3 million, offset by net long term equipment financing repayments of $1.5 million. Cash provided by investing activities in 2000 related primarily to our initial public offering in June, yielding net proceeds of $46.8 million and proceeds from the issuance of preferred stock of $34.8 million. On March 7, 2003, we entered an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Computer Motion, Inc. Under the terms of our merger agreement with Computer Motion, Computer Motion will become a wholly owned subsidiary of our company. Computer Motion recorded net losses of $21.2 million and $16.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, and had a cash balance of $2.6 million as of December 31, 2002. In recent periods, Computer Motion has not generated cash from operations. Both we and Computer Motion expect to incur additional operating losses into 2003, and both we and Computer Motion have substantial cash needs. Among other things, total fees and costs of both companies associated with the merger are currently projected to be approximately $4.0 million. Intuitive Surgical has agreed to fund up to $7.3 million of Computer Motions working capital needs through the effective time of the merger under the Loan and Security Agreement. Assuming completion of the merger on or around June 20, 2003, we project that the total combined cash and cash equivalents of the two companies will be less than $35 million. In addition to the effects of the merger, our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. We expect to devote substantial capital resources to continue our research and development efforts, to expand our customer support and product development activities and for other general corporate activities. We believe that our current cash and short term investment balances, together with revenue to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements at least through 2003. During or after this period, if cash generated by operations is insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may need to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit arrangements. Additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments. The following table summarizes all significant contractual payment obligations by payment due date: Payments by Period ($ Millions) Contractual Obligation Total Under 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5 Years Long term debt $ 3.3 $1.5 $ 1.8 $ $ Building lease 11.1 1.9 8.3 0.9 Total $14.4 $3.4 $10.1 $0.9 $ CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES We believe the following represent our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition. In certain cases, revenue from direct system sales is generated from multiple element arrangements which require judgement in the areas of customer acceptance, training, installation and collectibility. Revenue is recognized as specific elements indicated in sales contracts are executed. If an element is essential to the functionality of an arrangement, the entire arrangements revenue is deferred until that essential element is delivered. The fair value of each undelivered element that is not essential to the functionality of the system is deferred until performance or delivery occurs. The fair value of an undelivered element is based upon an estimate made by management. Amounts billed in excess of revenue recognized is recorded as deferred revenue on the balance sheet. Warranties. We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. Our estimate of costs to service our warranty obligations is based upon historical experience and expectation of future conditions. If warranty claim activity and the costs associated with servicing those claims differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based upon management estimates. Factors underlying these estimates include analysis of days outstanding, customer payment history and management judgement. The allowance is adjusted regularly to reflect current data and activity. Inventory Reserves. We write our inventory down for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required. Intangible Assets. We have intangible assets on our balance sheet related to the acquisition of patents. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful amortization lives involves judgments and the use of estimates. The evaluation of these intangibles for impairment under established accounting guidelines is required on an ongoing basis. Changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to asset valuations. Contingencies. We are subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims related to our products, patents and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. A complete description of all significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements, in Item 15 of this report. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS No. 141 "Business Combinations" and SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001, and that the use of the pooling of interest method is no longer allowed. Under SFAS 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to an annual impairment test in accordance with the new standards. Other intangible assets will continue to be amortized over their respective useful lives. We adopted SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 as of January 1, 2002. The adoption of SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 has not had a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations. We will apply the provisions of SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 to the acquisition of Computer Motion when the merger is completed. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS No. 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting for impairment or disposal of long lived assets and supersedes SFAS 121. We adopted SFAS 144 as of January 1, 2002, without a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," which addresses accounting for restructuring, discontinued operation, plant closing, or other exit or disposal activity. SFAS 146 requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. We will apply SFAS 146 prospectively to activities initiated after December 31, 2002. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148 "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 ", effective for the fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2002. SFAS 148 amends FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS 148 amends the disclosure requirements of Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. We continue to follow the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 in accounting for stock options, recognizing no compensation expense for options granted at or above market price. We adopted the provisions of SFAS 148 effective for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 and have complied with the amended disclosure requirements. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, or FIN 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." FIN 45 elaborates on the existing disclosure requirements for most guarantees, including residual value guarantees issued in conjunction with operating lease agreements. It also clarifies that at the time a company issues a guarantee, the company must recognize an initial liability for the fair value of the obligation it assumes under that guarantee and must disclose that information in its interim and annual financial statements. The initial recognition and measurement provisions apply on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. Our adoption of FIN 45 did not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, or FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." FIN 46 requires a variable interest entity to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest entitys activities or entitled to receive a majority of the entitys residual returns or both. A variable interest entity is a corporation, partnership, trust, or any other legal structure used for business purposes that either (a) does not have equity investors with voting rights or (b) has equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. A variable interest entity often holds financial assets, including loans or receivables, real estate or other property. A variable interest entity may be essentially passive or it may engage in research and development or other activities on behalf of another company. The consolidation requirements of FIN 46 apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. The consolidation requirements apply to older entities in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. Certain of the disclosure requirements apply to all financial statements issued after January 31, 2003, regardless of when the variable interest entity was established. We do not expect any significant impact on our financial position or results of operations upon adoption of this pronouncement. In October 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached consensus on issue 00 21, or EITF 00 21, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." The principles and application guidance of EITF 00 21 should be used to determine (a) how the arrangement consideration should be measured, (b) whether the arrangement should be divided into separate units of accounting, and (c) how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate units of accounting. The guidance in this issue is effective for revenue arrangements entered into in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company has not completed its evaluation of the impact of the adoption of EITF 00 21 on its results of operations or financial position. FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE BELOW SECURITIES ANALYSTS OR INVESTORS EXPECTATIONS, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Because of our limited operating history, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. The revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to generate significant revenues. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the progress and results of clinical trials; actions relating to regulatory matters; the completion of our pending merger with Computer Motion and the successful integration of the two companies; the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; product quality problems; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; and third party payor reimbursement policies. Our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. WE EXPERIENCE LONG AND VARIABLE SALES CYCLES, WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR ANY GIVEN QUARTER. Our da Vinci Surgical System has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. These factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly during the periods in which our sales volume is low. Because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. These fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. BECAUSE A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS HAVE AND ARE LIKELY TO CONTINUE TO ACCOUNT FOR A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, OUR REVENUES COULD DECLINE DUE TO THE LOSS OR DELAY OF A SINGLE CUSTOMER. A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of our total revenues. In 2000, 2001 and 2002, the majority of our revenues came from the sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems, which are high revenue dollar items. Due to the high dollar revenue per system sold, small variations in system unit sales may cause revenue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. For 2001 AB Medica SRL, our Italian distributor, accounted for 15% of total sales. No customer accounted for more than 10% of sales during 2000 or 2002. Due to the high average selling price of the da Vinci Surgical System, our failure to add new customers that make significant purchases of our products could reduce our future revenues. The loss or delay of individual orders could have a significant impact on revenues and operating results. IF OUR PRODUCTS DO NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE THE REVENUE NECESSARY TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS. Our products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. Achieving physician, patient and third party payor acceptance of Intuitive surgery as a preferred method of performing \surgery will be crucial to our success. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. We believe that physicians and third party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. Physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. Even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. For example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional open heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. In addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third party payors. We expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. Broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. Market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. We may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. We cannot be certain that our training programs will be cost effective or sufficient to meet our customers needs. WE ARE INVOLVED IN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LITIGATION WITH COMPUTER MOTION AND BROOKHILL WILK 1, LLC THAT MAY HURT OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION, MAY BE COSTLY TO US AND MAY PREVENT US FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS. WHILE THE MERGER AGREEMENT HAS RESULTED IN A STAY OF ALL PROCEEDINGS INVOLVING COMPUTER MOTION, THESE PROCEEDINGS MAY CONTINUE IF THE MERGER IS NOT COMPLETED. On May 10, 2000, Computer Motion filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California (Case No. CV00 4988 CBM) alleging that by making, using, selling or offering for sale our da Vinci Surgical System, we are infringing United States Patent Numbers 5,524,180, 5,762,458, 5,815,640, 5,855,583, 5,878,193, 5,907,664 and 6,001,108, in willful disregard of Computer Motions patent rights. On June 1, 2000, Computer Motion amended its lawsuit to allege that we also infringe U.S. Patent Number 6,063,095. In late 2000, Computer Motion alleged our infringement of a ninth patent, and added U.S. Patent Number 6,102,850 to the litigation. Computer Motion subsequently alleged that we infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,244,809, which it added to the litigation in May 2002. These ten patents concern various methods and devices for conducting various aspects of robotic surgery. Of those ten patents, three are no longer part of the suit. After Computer Motion lost all of its rights to its 5,855,583 and 5,878,193 patents as a result of our successful Patent Office interference proceedings Computer Motion voluntarily dismissed those patents from suit. However, Computer Motion has sought to challenge the interference proceedings by separate district court appeal. In addition, in November 2002, the Court granted our motion for summary judgment of noninfringement of the 6,102,850 patent. In February 2003, the Court denied our motion for summary judgment of noninfringement of the 6,244,809 patent and granted Computer Motions cross motion for partial summary judgment of literal infringement of one claim of that patent. We subsequently requested that the Court reconsider that decision because of perceived flaws in the Courts approach to the issue of infringement on summary judgment. Regardless of what happens on reconsideration, we will continue to defend the 809 patent on invalidity, based on the earlier robotic surgery work of SRI and others. We still have pending motions for summary judgment of noninfringement on two more of Computer Motions seven remaining patents in suit, numbers 5,907,664 and 6,001,108 At the Courts request, we will not file further motions for summary judgment until the remaining pending motions are decided. In late January 2003, after close of fact discovery, Computer Motion asserted between 26 and 35 new claims of its seven remaining patents in suit and new theories of infringement. We have moved to strike those new assertions as inappropriate at this late stage. Trial had been calendared for April 29, 2003. In connection with our proposed merger with Computer Motion, our company and Computer Motion have agreed to request an immediate stay through August 31, 2003 of all proceedings in the pending litigations between the companies. As part of the stays, the courts have ceased all further activity in the cases during the period of stay, and will not issue any opinions or orders on issues already submitted for decision. In addition, the California Court postponed the trial date and was asked to reset the trial to a date no earlier than November 30, 2003. The stay may be terminated before, or extended beyond, August 31, 2003 under specified circumstances. In the event the merger is completed, our company and Computer Motion will request dismissal with prejudice of all pending litigations. If the merger is not completed by August 31, 2003, the stays may be lifted and the California case may proceed to trial. If the stays are lifted and we ultimately lose Computer Motions suit against us, it will hurt our competitive position, may be costly to us and may prevent us from selling our products. In addition, we may need to obtain from Computer Motion a license to this technology if we are to continue to market our products that have been found to infringe Computer Motions patents. This license could be expensive, or could require us to license to Computer Motion some of our technology, which would result in a partial loss of our competitive advantage in the marketplace, each of which could seriously harm our business. If the stay is lifted and Computer Motion is successful in its suit against us and is unwilling to grant us a license, we will be required to stop selling our products that are found to infringe Computer Motions patents unless we can redesign them so they do not infringe Computer Motions patents, which we may be unable to do. In addition, we could be required to pay Computer Motion damages, including treble damages, which could be substantial and harm our financial position. On September 1, 2000, Brookhill Wilk 1, LLC, or Wilk, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Case No. 00 Civ. 6599 (NRB)) alleging that by making, using, selling or offering for sale our da Vinci Surgical System, we are infringing U.S. Patent Nos. 5,217,003 and 5,368,015 in willful disregard of Wilks patent rights. These patents concern methods and devices for "remote" surgery. In March 2001, Wilk withdrew its assertion of the 015 patent against our company. On November 8, 2001, the District Court granted summary judgment of noninfringement of the 003 patent in our favor and dismissed Wilks complaint in its entirety without prejudice. Wilk appealed the summary judgment ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. A decision on the merits of the appeal is expected sometime in 2003. If we lose on appeal and ultimately also lose Wilks suit against us, it will hurt our competitive position, may be costly to us and may prevent us from selling our products. If we lose the patent suit, we may need to obtain from Wilk a license to this technology if we are to continue to market our products that have been found to infringe Wilks patents. This license could be expensive, which could seriously harm our business. If Wilk is successful in its suit against us and is unwilling to grant us a license, we may be required to stop selling our products that are found to infringe Wilks patents unless we can redesign them so they do not infringe Wilks patents, which we may be unable to do. In addition, we could be required to pay Wilk damages, including treble damages, which could be substantial and harm our financial position. On February 21, 2001, Wilk filed suit against Computer Motion alleging that its ZEUS surgical system infringed upon Wilks U.S. Patent Nos. 5,217,003 and 5,368,015. Wilks complaint sought damages, attorneys fees and increased damages alleging willful patent infringement. On March 21, 2001, Computer Motion served its answer and counterclaim alleging non infringement of each patent in suit, patent invalidity and unenforceability. On November 8, 2001, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in the co pending Brookhill Wilk v. Intuitive Surgical, Inc., Civil Action No. 00 CV 6599 (NRB), issued an order interpreting the claims of Wilks U.S. Patent No. 5,217,003 in a way that Computer Motion believed excluded current applications of its ZEUS surgical system. In light of this decision, on November 13, 2001, Wilk and Computer Motion agreed to dismiss the case without prejudice to refiling upon resolution of the appeal in Wilks litigation against Intuitive Surgical. The foregoing proceedings would be expensive to litigate, may be protracted and our confidential information may be compromised. Whether or not we are successful in this lawsuit, these proceedings could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources. At any time the other parties may file additional claims against our company, or we may file claims against them, which could increase the risk, expense and duration of the litigations. For more information on these proceedings, see "Item 1: Business Legal Proceedings." IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CONTAINED IN OUR PRODUCTS FROM USE BY THIRD PARTIES, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET WILL BE HARMED. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. We will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third partys products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. OTHERS MAY ASSERT THAT OUR PRODUCTS INFRINGE THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO ENGAGE IN COSTLY DISPUTES AND, IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN DEFENDING OURSELVES, COULD ALSO CAUSE US TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGES AND PROHIBIT US FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS. We are aware of both United States and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. Some of these patents on their face appear broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. We do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. From time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. We may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. We cannot assure you that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or noninfringement of any third party patent. In addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. We cannot assure you that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. If third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us as Computer Motion and Brookhill Wilk 1, LLC have done, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. If third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third party patents. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. THE RIGHTS AND MEASURES WE RELY ON TO PROTECT THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY UNDERLYING OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO PREVENT THIRD PARTIES FROM USING OUR TECHNOLOGY WHICH COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET. In addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. If they do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the United States. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. For further information on our intellectual property and the difficulties in protecting it, see "Item 1: Business Intellectual Property." OUR PRODUCTS RELY ON LICENSES FROM THIRD PARTIES, AND IF WE LOSE ACCESS TO THESE TECHNOLOGIES, OUR REVENUES COULD DECLINE. We rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. We have entered into license agreements with SRI International, IBM Corporation, MIT, Olympus Optical Co., Ltd., and Heartport, Inc., now part of Johnson & Johnson. Any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. If any of these agreements is terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. The loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products. See "Item 1: Business Intellectual Property." PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS OF LITIGATION EVENTS MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. During the course of our administrative proceedings and or lawsuits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our stock. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO A LENGTHY AND UNCERTAIN DOMESTIC REGULATORY PROCESS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY DOMESTIC REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS IN THE UNITED STATES. Our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. The FDA regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, distribution, and production of medical devices in the United States to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In order for us to market certain products for use in the United States, we generally must first obtain clearance from the FDA pursuant to Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or "FFDCA". Clearance under Section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed device. If we modify our products after they receive FDA clearance, the FDA may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or PMA, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the U.S. In addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device, we will be required to obtain FDA approval by submitting a PMA. The FDA may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or PMA submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain FDA clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the United States. Furthermore, the FDA may request additional data, require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. The FDA may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a PMA, which is typically a much more complex application than a 510(k). To support a PMA, the FDA would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective, rather than substantially equivalent to another legally marketed device. We may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, or the FDA may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. In addition, the FDA may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. Product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. Any delays or failure to obtain FDA clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the FDA on new product use, or the costs of obtaining FDA clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain Institutional Review Board, or "IRB" approval of the proposed investigation. In addition, if the clinical study involves a "significant risk" (as defined by the FDA) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain FDA approval of an investigational device exemption, or "IDE" application. We may not be able to obtain FDA and or IRB approval to undertake clinical trials in the U.S. for any new devices we intend to market in the United States in the future. If we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the IDE and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. Failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information concerning regulatory approvals of our products, see "Item 1: Business Government Regulation." OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY PROCESSES AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. To be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. The European Union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the CE mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the European Union. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. In order to obtain the right to affix the CE mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain European quality standards. In January 1999, we received permission to affix the CE mark to our da Vinci Surgical System and EndoWrist instruments. If we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we may need to apply for permission to affix the CE mark to such products. In addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the CE mark permissions we have already obtained. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain permission to affix the CE mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. If we are unable to maintain permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the European Union. IF INSTITUTIONS OR SURGEONS ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD PARTY PAYORS FOR PROCEDURES USING OUR PRODUCTS, OR IF REIMBURSEMENT IS INSUFFICIENT TO COVER THE COSTS OF PURCHASING OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT SALES TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS. Domestic institutions will typically bill the services performed with our products to various third party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. Our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government sponsored health care payment systems and third party payors. Reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. Many international markets have government managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. Other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. Market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in any country within a particular time. In addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. For further information on third party reimbursement policies, see "Item 1: Business Third Party Reimbursement." BECAUSE OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, CUSTOMERS MAY CHOOSE TO PURCHASE OUR COMPETITORS PRODUCTS OR MAY NOT ACCEPT INTUITIVE SURGERY, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUE AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. Intuitive surgery is a new technology that must compete with established minimally invasive surgery and open surgery. These procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. We also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the minimally invasive surgery market. In addition, we presently face increasing competition from companies who are developing robotic and computer assisted surgical systems. Our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. In many cases, the medical conditions that can be treated using our products can also be treated by drugs or other medical devices and procedures. Many of these alternative treatments are also widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. In addition, technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. We cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will be competitive with current or future technologies. IF DEFECTS ARE DISCOVERED IN OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL UNFORESEEN COSTS, HOSPITALS MAY NOT PURCHASE OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR REPUTATION MAY SUFFER. Our products incorporate mechanical parts and computer software, either of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. We cannot assure you that our products will not experience errors or performance problems in the future. If we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. WE HAVE LIMITED EXPERIENCE IN MANUFACTURING OUR PRODUCTS AND MAY ENCOUNTER MANUFACTURING PROBLEMS OR DELAYS THAT COULD RESULT IN LOST REVENUE. We have manufactured a limited number of our products for sale to customers. We may be unable to establish or maintain reliable, high volume manufacturing capacity. Even if this capacity can be established and maintained, the cost of doing so may increase the cost of our products and reduce our ability to compete. We may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. Manufacturing our products is a complex process. If demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. If we are unable to establish and maintain larger scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace would be damaged. IF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES DO NOT CONTINUE TO MEET FEDERAL, STATE OR EUROPEAN MANUFACTURING STANDARDS, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO TEMPORARILY CEASE ALL OR PART OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN PRODUCT DELIVERY DELAYS AND LOST REVENUE. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the FDA for compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements contained in the FDAs Quality System Regulations, or QSR. We are also required to comply with International Organization for Standardization, or ISO quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in Europe. If we fail to continue to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. We are currently in compliance with ISO standards. The FDA inspected our Mountain View and Sunnyvale facilities in March 2000 and December 2002, respectively. The Good Manufacturing Practice issues raised by the FDA during the inspections either were satisfactorily resolved with the FDA, or we believe can be resolved by us to the FDAs satisfaction, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We continue to be subject to FDA inspections at any time. Maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. We cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. The state of California also requires that we maintain a license to manufacture medical devices. Our facilities and manufacturing processes were inspected in February 1998. In March 1998, we passed the inspection and received a device manufacturing license from the California Department of Health Services. In March 2002, our facilities and manufacturing processes in our Sunnyvale facility were re inspected by the Food and Drug Branch, or FDB, and we were issued an updated device manufacturing license for our Sunnyvale facility. We are subject to periodic inspections by the California Department of Health Services and if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products. OUR RELIANCE ON SOLE AND SINGLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER OR WITHIN BUDGET. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole source suppliers or single source suppliers. We purchase components through purchase orders rather than long term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. The disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our profitability. A disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. THE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD RESULT IN PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT COULD BE EXPENSIVE, DIVERT MANAGEMENTS ATTENTION AND HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. There is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. Particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. A product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. and as a group. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. IF WE LOSE OUR KEY PERSONNEL OR ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE WILL BE HARMED. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. Our product development plans depend in part on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies, and universities. The loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. INTERNATIONAL SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS ACCOUNT FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, WHICH EXPOSES US TO RISKS INHERENT IN INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. OUR GROWTH MAY BE LIMITED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES. Our business currently depends in large part on our activities in Europe, and a component of our growth strategy is to expand our presence into additional foreign markets. Sales to markets outside of the United States accounted for approximately 18%, 34% and 36% of our sales for 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. We are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. These challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. Currently, a majority of our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. If we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR PENDING MERGER WITH COMPUTER MOTION THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES OF INTUITIVE SURGICAL COMMON STOCK TO COMPUTER MOTION STOCKHOLDERS IN THE MERGER WILL SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE THE PERCENTAGE INTERESTS OF INTUITIVE SURGICAL STOCKHOLDERS. Based on an estimated exchange ratio of approximately 0.52, we estimate that we will issue approximately 14.7 million shares of our common stock in the merger and upon completion of the merger, our current stockholders will own approximately 72% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock and former Computer Motion stockholders will own approximately 28% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, based on the estimated exchange ratio of approximately 0.52, we estimate that we will reserve approximately 5.7 million shares of Intuitive Surgical common stock for future issuance in connection with Intuitive Surgicals assumption of Computer Motions outstanding options and warrants (including out of the money options and warrants), subject to proportional reduction in the event that the proposed reverse stock split is approved by our stockholders and implemented by our board of directors. The outstanding warrants of Computer Motion have a range of exercise prices. Holders of these warrants have the right to an adjustment in the exercise price of their warrants, and in some cases in the number of shares issuable upon exercise, if the warrant issuer sells shares in the future at prices below the exercise prices of the warrants. These anti dilution protections may continue to apply after the merger and thus could result in additional dilution to stockholders of the combined company as we make future offerings of capital stock. The issuance of shares of Intuitive Surgical common stock to former Computer Motion stockholders in or after the merger will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interests of current Intuitive Surgical stockholders in earnings, voting, liquidation value and book and market value. The issuance of additional shares of Intuitive Surgical common stock in future transactions could also reduce the percentage interests of former Computer Motion stockholders and Intuitive Surgical stockholders in the combined company. This dilution could reduce the market price of our common stock. INTUITIVE SURGICAL AND COMPUTER MOTION EACH HAVE INCURRED SUBSTANTIAL LOSSES SINCE INCEPTION, EXPECT TO INCUR FURTHER LOSSES, AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE OR RAISE SUFFICIENT CASH TO FUND THEIR OPERATIONS, SEPARATE OR COMBINED. We incurred a net loss of $18.4 million for 2002, and Computer Motion incurred a net loss of $21.2 million for the same period. The extent of our future losses and the timing of profitability are highly uncertain, and we may never achieve profitable operations. If the time required to generate significant revenues and achieve profitability is longer than anticipated, we may not be able to continue our operations. In recent periods, Computer Motion has not generated cash from operations. Both companies expect to incur additional operating losses into 2003, and both companies have substantial cash needs. Among other things, total fees and costs of both companies associated with the merger are currently projected to be approximately $4.0 million. We have agreed to fund up to $7.3 million of Computer Motions working capital needs through the effective time of the merger under the Loan and Security Agreement. Assuming completion of the merger on or around June 20, 2003, we project that the total combined cash and cash equivalents of the two companies will be less than $35 million. We expect that the capital resources of the combined company, together with revenue derived from product sales, will be sufficient to meet the combined companys working capital needs at least through 2003. After that, we may need to raise additional funds. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient capital to fund our operations and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to further develop, enhance or expand the market for our products and services, and the combined company could fail. THE COMBINED COMPANY MAY NOT REALIZE ALL OF THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE MERGER. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the business of Computer Motion with the business of Intuitive Surgical. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful, rapid integration of the operations of Computer Motion with those of Intuitive Surgical. This integration will be a complex, costly and time consuming process, and may not succeed as planned. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among other things: coordinating and consolidating ongoing and future research and development efforts; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; retaining strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; retaining key employees; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; integrating and managing the technologies and products of the two companies; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; using capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company; minimizing the diversion of managements attention from ongoing business concerns; and coordinating geographically separate organizations. In addition, Computer Motions products differ in substantial ways from our products, and the companies rely on different distributors and sales channels to sell their products. Both Computer Motion and Intuitive Surgical are parties to existing distribution agreements that cannot be terminated prior to the end of their terms. We do not know whether the combined company will succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the merger, or whether the integration of Computer Motion with Intuitive Surgical will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated by us from the merger. FAILURE TO COMPLETE THE MERGER COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT INTUITIVE SURGICAL AND ITS STOCKHOLDERS. If the merger is not completed for any reason, Intuitive Surgical and Computer Motion and their stockholders will be subject to a number of material risks, including: the provision in the merger agreement that, under specified circumstances, either Intuitive Surgical or Computer Motion could be required to pay the other a termination fee and expenses of up to an aggregate of $2.5 million; the litigations between the two companies may resume; Computer Motion would be required to repay to Intuitive Surgical all amounts loaned under the bridge loan facility within 120 days following termination of the merger agreement; Computer Motion likely would not have sufficient cash to repay amounts loaned under the bridge loan, and Intuitive Surgical would be at risk that such bridge loan amounts would not be repaid unless Computer Motion were able to obtain alternative financing; the market price of Intuitive Surgical common stock and Computer Motion common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of such shares reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; costs related to the merger, such as legal and accounting fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed; benefits that Intuitive Surgical and Computer Motion expect to realize from the merger would not be realized; and the diversion of management attention from the day to day businesses of the companies and the unavoidable disruption to their employees and customers during the period before completion of the merger may make it difficult for Intuitive Surgical and Computer Motion to regain their financial and market positions if the merger does not occur. SALES BY INTUITIVE SURGICAL STOCKHOLDERS OR FORMER COMPUTER MOTION STOCKHOLDERS COULD CAUSE INTUITIVE SURGICALS COMMON STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. The market price of Intuitive Surgical common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market. These sales may also make it more difficult for the combined company to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. As of December 31, 2002, several entities beneficially owned more than 5% of the outstanding shares of Intuitive Surgicals common stock, including Bear Stearns Asset Management, Allan G. Lozier, Investor Growth Capital, Ltd., Merrill Lynch & Co., and PaTMarK Company, Inc. Assuming that the merger is completed, the former stockholders of Computer Motion will own approximately 28% of the combined company, subject to the assumptions and adjustments discussed elsewhere in this joint proxy statement/prospectus. In addition, holders of warrants to purchase up to 5.5 million shares of Computer Motion common stock will receive Intuitive Surgical warrants in exchange for their Computer Motion warrants in connection with the merger. Such warrant holders will have the right to include their shares in resale registration statements that we will be obligated to file on their behalf. CUSTOMER, SUPPLIER, AND EMPLOYEE UNCERTAINTY RELATED TO THE MERGER COULD HARM THE COMBINED COMPANY. Intuitive Surgical and Computer Motion customers and suppliers may, in response to the announcement or completion of the merger, delay purchasing or supply decisions or otherwise alter existing relationships with Intuitive Surgical or Computer Motion. These decisions or other adverse changes in the business relationships of Intuitive Surgical and Computer Motion with their respective customers and suppliers could adversely affect the business of the combined company. Similarly, current and prospective Computer Motion employees may experience uncertainty about their future as employees of the combined company until strategies with regard to Computer Motion are announced or executed. This may adversely affect Intuitive Surgicals or Computer Motions ability to attract and retain, and may affect the performance during the transition period of, key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. THE CONVICTION OF ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP ON OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE CHARGES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ARTHUR ANDERSENS ABILITY TO SATISFY CLAIMS ARISING FROM THE PROVISION OF AUDITING SERVICES TO COMPUTER MOTION AND MAY IMPEDE THE COMBINED COMPANYS ACCESS TO CAPITAL MARKETS AFTER THE MERGER. Arthur Andersen LLP audited Computer Motions financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. On March 14, 2002, an indictment was unsealed charging Arthur Andersen with federal obstruction of justice arising from the governments investigation of Enron Corp. On June 15, 2002, Arthur Andersen was convicted of these charges. The impact of this conviction on Arthur Andersens financial condition may adversely affect the ability of Arthur Andersen to satisfy any claims arising from its provision of auditing services to Computer Motion. Should Intuitive Surgical seek to access the public capital markets after completion of the merger, SEC rules will require Intuitive Surgical to include or incorporate by reference in any prospectus three years of audited financial statements. The SECs current rules would require Intuitive Surgical to present audited financial statements for one or more fiscal years audited by Arthur Andersen and use reasonable efforts to obtain its consent until the audited financial statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2004 become available. If prior to that time the SEC ceases accepting financial statements audited by Arthur Andersen, it is possible that the available audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000 audited by Arthur Andersen might not satisfy the SECs requirements. In that case, Intuitive Surgical would be unable to access the public capital markets unless an independent accounting firm were able to audit the financial statements originally audited by Arthur Andersen. Any delay or inability to access the public capital markets caused by these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on the combined companys business, profitability and growth prospects. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK We are not subject to any meaningful market risks related to currency, commodity prices or similar matters. We are sensitive to short term interest rate fluctuations to the extent that such fluctuations impact the interest income we receive on the investment of the remaining proceeds from our June 2000 initial public offering. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities that we invest in may have market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline. To minimize this risk in the future, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short term investments in a variety of securities. We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities as "fixed rate" if the rate of return on such instruments remains fixed over their term. These "fixed rate" investments include commercial paper and government and non government debt securities. We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities as "variable rate" if the rate of return on such investments varies based on the change in a predetermined index or set of indices during their term. These "variable rate" investments primarily included money market accounts. The average duration of all of our investments as of December 31, 2002 was approximately 1.4 years. At December 31, 2002, approximately 36% of our investment portfolio was composed of investments with original maturities of one year or less. The following table presents the amounts of our cash, cash equivalents and short term investments that may be subject to interest rate risk and the weighted average interest rates by year of maturity ($ in thousands): AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 WEIGHTED AVERAGE FAIR INTEREST RATE VALUE Cash Equivalents Variable rate ................... 1.51 % $ 8,600 Marketable securities Fixed rate (mature in 2004) ..... 5.08 % $ 6,429 Fixed rate (mature in 2005) ..... 6.04 % $16,766 Fixed rate (mature in 2006) ..... 5.9 % $ 5,954 Fixed rate (mature in 2007) ..... 5.25 % $ 4,082 Fluctuations in interest rates would also impact interest expense on future fixed rate notes payable for equipment financing contracts, should we elect to finance future equipment purchases. The following table summarizes installment notes outstanding as of December 31, 2002 and the associated interest rates by year of maturity ($ in thousands): Weighted Final Outstanding Average Installment December 31, 2002 Rate 2003 $ 42 5.4% 2004 1,475 8.7% 2005 1,832 7.2% $ 3,349 7.8% Less current portion 1,511 Long term portion $ 1,838 
 
