ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We design, manufacture and market the da Vinci Surgical System, an advanced surgical system that we believe represents a new generation of surgery the third generation. The da Vinci Surgical System consists of a surgeons console, a patient side cart, a high performance vision system and proprietary wristed instruments. The da Vinci Surgical System seamlessly translates the surgeons natural hand movements on instrument controls at a console into corresponding micro movements of instruments positioned inside the patient through small puncture incisions, or ports. We believe that the da Vinci Surgical System is the only commercially available technology that can provide the surgeon with the intuitive control, range of motion, fine tissue manipulation capability and 3 D visualization characteristic of open surgery, while simultaneously allowing the surgeons to work through the small ports of minimally invasive surgery, or MIS. By placing computer enhanced technology between the surgeon and the patient, we believe that the da Vinci Surgical System enables surgeons to perform better surgery in a manner never before experienced. The da Vinci Surgical System is sold into multiple surgical specialties, principally urology, cardiac and general surgery. To date, the majority of our revenues have come from the sales of the da Vinci Surgical System, which are high revenue dollar items. A smaller percentage of revenues have come from sales of EndoWrist instruments and accessories, which are lower revenue dollar items. A small percentage of revenue comes from ongoing service of installed da Vinci Surgical Systems. Although we expect the majority of our revenues to continue to come from the sale of da Vinci Surgical Systems over the next few years, we believe that the percentage of revenue from our EndoWrist instruments and service will continue to increase. Due to the high dollar revenue per system sold, small variation in system unit sales may cause revenue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. During the useful life of each installed da Vinci Surgical System, we expect to generate revenue through sales of the EndoWrist instrument and accessories and ongoing service. Over the past three years, revenue generated from the sale of instruments, accessories, service and training increased from $7.5 million, or 15% of sales, in 2001 to $15.7 million, or 22% of sales, in 2002 to $29.9 million, or 33% of sales in 2003. We are anticipating a continuation of this trend in 2004. 2003 Business Events and Financial Highlights Summary During 2003, there were several business events and transactions that significantly impacted the years financial results, including the following: acquisition of Computer Motion, Inc. on June 30, 2003 for $148.5 million; termination of a majority of Computer Motions operations and elimination of redundant resources; launch of the fourth surgical arm upgrade option to the da Vinci Surgical System platform and the sale of 37 fourth arm upgrades; Issuance and sale of 5,750,000 shares of common stock in a public offering resulting in $77.7 million in net proceeds; Settlement of the ongoing patent litigation with Brookhill Wilk, Inc.; and Implementation of new revenue recognition literature. These events and transactions are described in more detail below. Computer Motion Acquisition In June 2003, we acquired Computer Motion, Inc. in a stock transaction in which each outstanding share of Computer Motion common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.25713472 of one share of our common stock after giving effect to our 1 for 2 reverse stock split effective July 1, 2003. In addition, we assumed all of Computer Motions outstanding options and warrants. The total purchase price was approximately $148.5 million. We believe that the Computer Motion acquisition resulted in the following benefits to our 25 Table of Contents company: the termination of all pending patent litigation between the two companies; our ownership of all of Computer Motion intellectual property; the addition of complementary products to our offerings; and the achievement of significant cost synergies and economies of scale. Upon completion of our acquisition of Computer Motion, our management approved plans to restructure the operations of the combined entity. The plan provided for the elimination of redundant activities and facilities and the termination of the employment of approximately 150 employees, representing 75% of the Computer Motion positions, by December 31, 2003, generally with immediate severance payment upon termination. The plan called for vacating and subleasing 78% of the leased space in Goleta, California, consolidating European operations into a single site, closing Computer Motions Asia office, and transitioning to our distribution sales model for the area. Based upon this plan, we targeted annual pre tax cost savings of at least $18 million. As of December 31, 2003, we have substantially implemented this restructuring plan. We believe we have achieved $28 million of annual pre tax savings, significantly exceeding our $18 million goal, primarily due to increased efficiencies realized upon execution of the plan. We recorded a $3.4 million accrual in accordance with EITF No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination. In accordance with EITF No. 95 3, the restructuring accrual was recorded as a component of the purchase price. In the quarter ended December 31, 2003, based on our cost structure and future development plans, we elected to completely shut down the Goleta research and development facility. As a result, we plan to exit the last Goleta rented facility and terminate the employment of a majority of the Goleta based employees. We recorded restructuring charges related to costs of one time employee termination in accordance to SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. SFAS No. 146 requires that a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred. We recorded restructuring charges of $0.2 million in 2003 and expect to incur an additional $0.5 million of employee termination costs and costs to exit the leased facility in the quarter ending March 31, 2004. The following table summarizes the restructuring activity for the year ended December 31, 2003 (in thousands): EITF No. 95 3 SFAS No. 146 Employee Severance Lease Commitments Employee Severance Total Costs accrued $ 2,628 $ 816 $ 186 $ 3,630 Cash payments, net of subleasing proceeds (2,310 ) (303 ) (2,613 ) Currency impact (23 ) (23 ) (46 ) Balance at December 31, 2003 $ 295 $ 490 $ 186 $ 971 The remaining restructuring reserve balance in the amount of $1.0 million, relating primarily to the remaining cost of the leased facility net of subleasing rental income, will be fully utilized in 2007. Computer Motion Impairment Charges Since the completion of the Computer Motion transaction, we have incurred impairment charges to write down certain assets acquired from Computer Motion. Specifically, we fully expensed $3.2 million of the Aesop developed technology intangible asset to product cost of sales; we expensed $2.2 million of excess Aesop inventory to product cost of sales; 26 Table of Contents we expensed $0.5 million of excess Zeus inventory to product cost of sales; we fully expensed the remaining $0.2 million of intangible asset related to Aesop trademarks to selling general and administrative expense; we fully expensed $0.1 million of internal use software intangible asset to selling general and administrative expense; and we fully expensed $0.1 million of the Zeus developed technology intangible asset to product cost of sales. As we analyze the results of our business, we exclude these non cash charges, as we do not believe they relate to our core business activities. The overall impact of the Computer Motion impairment charges on our 2003 results was $6.0 million to product cost of sales and $0.3 million to SG&A. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS No. 144) as of January 1, 2002. SFAS 144 requires recognition of impairment of long lived assets when circumstances indicate an impairment has occurred and in the event the net book value of such assets exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets. Accordingly, we evaluate asset recoverability when an event occurs that may impair recoverability of the asset. We determine the recoverability of the carrying amount of each asset by reviewing the following factors: the undiscounted value of expected operating cash flows, the estimated useful or contractual life of the asset and the contract of product supporting the asset. The Aesop and Zeus related charges are related to products for which future sales were anticipated to be significantly lower than the original forecast. Aesop will continue to be a part of the Intuitive product offering going forward, and we are currently looking at ways to improve upon our current forecast with cost effective methods to market, sell, and service Aesop products. The Fourth Arm Product Launch During the second quarter of 2003, we launched the fourth surgical arm upgrade option for the da Vinci Surgical System. This extra arm is sold as either part of a new system installation or as an upgrade to a previously sold unit. The extra arm provides additional clinical surgery capability for more complex procedures by enabling the surgeons to manipulate an additional instrument. In addition, the fourth arm product creates an opportunity to reduce operating room support staff by potentially eliminating the need for an assistant surgeon. During 2003, we sold 37 fourth arms. Follow on Common Stock Offering During the fourth quarter of 2003, we raised additional working capital through the sale of 5,750,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $14.50 per share. The transaction resulted in net proceeds of approximately $77.7 million, after the underwriting discount and commission and direct transaction costs. As of December 31, 2003, we had $112.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. With this additional funding, we believe we have ample cash to support operations and growth for the foreseeable future. Brookhill Wilk Settlement During the fourth quarter of 2003, we settled our ongoing patent litigation with Brookhill Wilk. The overall settlement was $2.6 million, which we paid in January 2004. Based upon the relative fair value of the individual element of the settlement agreement and the revenue stream of the underlying product over the life of the patents, we charged $0.6 million to 2003 product cost of sales. We will amortize the remaining $2.0 million to cost of sales over approximately the next six and one half years on a straight line basis. EITF No. 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables Effective July 1, 2003, we prospectively adopted the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 00 21, Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. As a result, we deferred $3.7 million related to the fair value of the first year of warranty and service for system sales delivered during the second half of 2003. This amount is being recognized as service revenue on a straight line basis over the related 27 Table of Contents service period, which is generally one year. Previously, in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, we recognized this amount as part of system sales and accrued costs associated with these arrangements as warranty expense in the period the system was delivered and accepted. We adopted EITF No. 00 21 on a prospective basis. Classification of Training Costs and Service Revenue During the fourth quarter of 2003, we changed our classification of costs associated with customer training from selling, general and administrative expense to service cost of sales. In addition, we reclassified training and installation service revenue from product revenue to service revenue. While there has been no change to the net income of prior periods financial results, these items have been reclassified in prior periods for comparative purposes. Our 2003 financial statements are prepared on this basis and all prior accounting periods are now being presented on a basis consistent with this treatment. The amounts reclassified to service cost of sales from selling, general and administrative expense were $2.5 million, $3.5 million and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The amounts reclassified to service revenue from product revenue were $0.4 million, $0.6 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We have analyzed our revenue elements based on EITF No. 00 21 guidelines, and believe the revised amounts appropriately reflect our current business practices. Results Of Operations Sales The following table summarizes sales and the da Vinci Surgical System population trend between 2001 and 2003. Overall sales increased from $51.7 million in 2001 to $72.0 million in 2002 to $91.7 million in 2003. Sales growth during this period reflected growth in both product sales and service sales each of which is discussed in more detail below. Fiscal Year Ended Revenue ($ Millions) 12/31/03 12/31/02 12/31/01 Systems $ 61.8 $ 56.3 $ 44.2 Instruments/Accessories 18.8 10.1 5.0 Total Product Sales 80.6 66.4 49.2 Service/Training 11.1 5.6 2.5 Total Revenue $ 91.7 $ 72.0 $ 51.7 Domestic $ 70.1 $ 59.0 $ 33.8 International 21.6 13.0 17.9 Total Revenue $ 91.7 $ 72.0 $ 51.7 da Vinci Surgical System Population Unit Sales 61 60 49 Product Sales Product sales increased to $80.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $66.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase was due to higher 2003 system and instrument and accessory revenue. Total system revenue increased to $61.8 million in 2003 from $56.3 million in 2002, resulting from higher da Vinci fourth arm revenue and the impact of Computer Motion products sold subsequent to the June 30, 2003 acquisition. We sold 61 da Vinci systems during 2003, compared to 60 in 2002. We sold 37 fourth arm upgrades to the da Vinci platform in 2003 compared to none in 2002. Total 2003 Computer Motion system product sales were $1.5 million, comprised in large part of 16 AESOP unit sales. Instrument and accessory revenue increased to $18.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $10.1 million for the year 28 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2002. The larger base of installed da Vinci systems and increased system utilization per site resulted in the increase in instrument and accessory revenue. Product sales increased to $66.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $49.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was due to higher 2002 system and instrument and accessory revenue. Total system revenue increased to $56.3 million in 2002 from $44.2 million in 2001, resulting primarily from higher da Vinci Surgical System units sales. We sold 60 da Vinci systems during 2002 compared to 49 in 2001. Instrument and accessory revenue increased to $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $5.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The larger base of installed da Vinci systems and improved system utilization per site drove the increase in instrument and accessory revenue. Service Sales Service sales comprised of system service, installation and customer training, increased to $11.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase was primarily due to a larger installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems generating service sales. The installed base of systems generating service revenue grew by 60 during 2003 reflecting the number of systems sold during 2002 for which service sales would be recognized throughout 2003. In addition, during the third quarter 2003, we prospectively adopted EITF No. 00 21. As a result, beginning July 1, 2003, service sales related to the first year of service began to be recognized as a separate unit of accounting of each da Vinci Surgical System sale with service sales recognized over the first year. In addition, Computer Motions service sales added $0.3 million to 2003 revenue as compared to 2002. Service sales increased to $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to a larger installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems generating service sales. The installed base of systems generating service sales grew by 49 during 2002 reflecting the number of systems sold during 2001 for which service sales would be recognized throughout 2002. Gross Profit Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $44.0 million, or 48.0% of sales, compared to $33.9 million, or 47.1% of sales in 2002, and $21.5 million, or 41.6% of sales in 2001. The improvement in overall gross margin during the period resulted primarily from lower product material costs, improved product reliability, and leveraging our service and training organizations across a larger base of installed systems. Product sales gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $40.6 million, or 50.4% of sales, compared to $35.2 million, or 53.1% of sales, in 2002, and $23.3 million, or 47.4% of sales, in 2001. The decrease in product sales gross profit percentage from 53.1% in 2002 to 50.4% in 2003 is due to the Computer Motion impairment charges and Brookhill Wilk charges incurred in 2003, partially offset by the lower product costs and improved system and instrument reliability. The increase in product sales gross profit percentage from 47.4% in 2001 to 53.1% in 2002 is due to lower product costs and system reliability improvements. Service sales gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $3.4 million, or 30.9% of sales, compared to $(1.3) million in 2002 and $(1.8) million in 2001. The year over year improvements and transition to positive service revenue gross profit in 2003 resulted from leveraging relatively fixed service and training cost pools across a larger base of service revenue generating systems. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses include personnel costs for sales, marketing and administrative personnel, tradeshow expenses, legal expenses, regulatory fees and general corporate expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2003 were $39.7 million, up 6% from $37.3 million for 2002. The year over year increase was due to higher compensation and employee travel costs, resulting primarily from higher sales volume and the Computer Motion acquisition, intangible asset amortization and impairment, accounting fees, and general legal and insurance expense, offset by lower litigation expenses. 29 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2002 were $37.3 million, up 33% from $28.0 million for 2001. The year over year increase was due in large part to higher compensation and employee travel costs, resulting primarily from higher sales volume and a larger installed base of da Vinci Surgical Systems. Selling, general and administrative expenses were also higher in 2002 due to increased litigation expenses and unauthorized purchases of administrative supplies. Selling, general and administrative expenses are expected to increase in the future to support our expanding business. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses include costs associated with the design, development, testing and enhancement of our products. These enhancements represent significant improvements to our products. Research and development expenses also include expenditures for clinical trials and purchases of laboratory supplies. Research and development expenses for 2003 were $16.2 million, down 4% from $16.8 million for 2002. The year over year decrease resulted from lower 2003 project consulting and materials costs and lower 2003 clinical trials costs. The 2002 research and development costs were $16.8 million, up 21% from $13.9 million in 2001. The increase was primarily due to headcount related increases, more clinical trial costs, and higher prototype material and project costs. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect to continue to make substantial investments in research and development and anticipate that research and development expenses will continue to increase in the future. Deferred Compensation We record deferred compensation as the difference between the exercise price of options granted and the fair value of our common stock at the time of grant for financial reporting purposes. Deferred compensation is amortized to research and development expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we recorded amortization of deferred stock compensation and stock compensation totaling $0.7 million, $0.7 million, and $1.6 million, respectively. For 2003, 2002 and 2001, non cash deferred compensation expense included in research and development expenses was $0.5 million, $0.4 million and $1.0 million, respectively. For 2003, 2002 and 2001, non cash deferred compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expenses was $0.2 million, $0.3 million, and $0.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, there was a remaining unamortized deferred compensation balance of $0.1 million. Other Income Other income was $2.3 million, $1.8 million and $3.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase between 2003 and 2002 resulted primarily from higher foreign exchange gains in 2003 resulting from transactions denominated in euro. The decrease between 2002 and 2001 resulted primarily from lower interest income earned during 2002 due to lower cash and short term investment balances over the period and lower interest rates earned on cash and short term investment balances in 2002. Liquidity And Capital Resources Our operations have been financed primarily through the sale of our equity securities. Sales of convertible preferred stock have yielded proceeds of approximately $127.3 million and public offerings of our common stock have yielded proceeds of approximately $124.5 million. We have also financed operations through employee stock purchase and option plans as well as equipment financing arrangements. At December 31, 2003 we had total stockholders equity of $279.0 million and outstanding equipment financing debt of $1.7 million. 30 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2003, we had cash, cash equivalents and short term investments of $112.9 million, compared to $49.9 million at December 31, 2002 and $66.7 million at December 31, 2001. Working capital at December 31, 2003 was $117.8 million, compared to $51.7 million at December 31, 2002 and $67.9 million at December 31, 2001. The 2003 increase in cash and investments and working capital resulted primarily from the $77.7 million of net proceeds received from our follow on stock offering, offset mostly by the Computer Motion acquisition. The 2002 decreases in cash, cash equivalents and short term investments and working capital were primarily attributable to cash used to fund operating losses and to acquire fixed assets. Net cash used in operating activities was $7.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $14.1 million for 2002 and $18.5 million for 2001. Cash used in 2003 was primarily the result of a net loss of $9.6 million and a decrease in working capital of $9.8 million, which was partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $11.5 million. Cash used in 2002 was primarily the result of a net loss of $18.4 million and a decrease in working capital of $0.5 million, which was partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $4.8 million. Cash used in 2001 was primarily the result of a net loss of $16.7 million and a decrease in working capital of $6.7 million, which was partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $4.9 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $71.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $8.6 million in 2002 and $15.0 million in 2001. Net cash used in investing activities in 2003 resulted primarily from the net movement into short term investments from cash received from the follow on offering proceeds. The cash provided by investing activities in 2002 and 2001 related primarily to the net conversion of short term investments into cash to fund operations during those years. Net cash provided by financing activities was $82.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $3.0 million for 2002 and $0.8 million for 2001. The 2003 cash provided resulted primarily from our follow on common stock offering yielding $77.7 million of net proceeds, with the remainder coming mostly from employee stock purchases and option exercises. In 2002, cash provided by financing activities resulted from proceeds from the issuance of common stock resulting mainly from the employee stock purchase plan and the exercise of stock options of $2.1 million and net long term equipment financing proceeds of $1.0 million. In 2001, cash provided by financing resulted from $2.3 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock, offset by net long term equipment financing repayments of $1.5 million. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing and supporting our products and other factors. We expect to devote substantial capital resources to continue our research and development efforts, to expand our customer support and product development activities and for other general corporate activities. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and short term investment balances, together with revenue to be derived from the sale of our products, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes all significant contractual payment obligations, net of sublease income of $1.7 million throughout the next 4 years, by payment due date: Payments by Period ($ Millions) Contractual Obligations Total Under 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years Over 5 Years Long term debt $ 1,725 $ 1,030 $ 695 $ $ Building lease 10,732 3,161 6,408 1,163 Purchase commitments 812 812 Total $ 13,269 $ 5,003 $ 7,103 $ 1,163 $ 31 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions. Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes our significant accounting policies. We believe the following estimates are most critical to an understanding of our financial results and condition and require a higher degree of judgment and complexity: Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. In certain cases, revenue from direct system sales is earned pursuant to multiple element arrangements that require judgment in the areas of the separability of units of accounting, the fair value of individual elements, customer acceptance, and collectibility. Effective July 1, 2003, we adopted the provisions of EITF No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables on a prospective basis. The principles and guidance outlined in EITF No. 00 21 provide a framework to (a) determine whether an arrangement involving multiple deliverables contains more than one unit of accounting and (b) determine how the arrangement consideration should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting in the arrangement. We determined that our multiple element arrangements are generally comprised of the following elements that would qualify as separate units of accounting: system sales, service, installation, and training. Each of these elements represents individual units of accounting as the delivered item has value to a customer on a stand alone basis, objective and reliable evidence of fair value exists for undelivered items, and arrangements generally do not contain a general right of return relative to the delivered item. We determine fair value based on the price of the undelivered element when it is sold separately or based on third party evidence. In accordance with the guidance in EITF No. 00 21, we use the residual method to allocate the arrangement consideration when we do not have fair value of the system sale. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered item equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the undelivered items. Assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met, we recognize revenue for system sales when delivery and acceptance occurs, for installation and training when the services are rendered, and for service ratably over the service period, which is generally one year. Revenue from sales of replacement instruments and accessories is recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to future commitments under separately priced service contracts is deferred and recognized ratably over the service period. We assess probability of collection based on a number of factors, including our past transaction history with the customer and the credit worthiness of the customer. New customers and certain existing customers are subject to a credit review process that evaluates each customers financial position and ultimately its ability to pay according to the original terms of the arrangement. Allowance for Sales Returns and Doubtful Accounts. We recorded estimated reductions in revenue for potential returns of products by customers and other allowances. As a result, management must make estimates of potential future product returns and other allowances related to current period product revenue. In making such estimates, management analyzes historical returns, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products. If management were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates, material differences in the amount of reported revenue could result. Similarly, management makes estimates of the uncollectability of accounts receivables, especially analyzing accounts receivable and historical bad debts, customer concentrations, customer credit worthiness, current economic trends and changes in customer payment terms, when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. If management were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates, material differences in the amount of our reported operating expenses could result. Inventory Write downs. We write our inventory down for estimated obsolete or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write downs may be required in the future. 32 Table of Contents Intangible Assets. We have intangible assets on our balance sheet related to the acquisition of Computer Motion and the acquisition of other patents. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful amortization lives involves judgments and the use of estimates. The evaluation of these intangibles for impairment under established accounting guidelines is required on an ongoing basis. Changes in business conditions could potentially require future adjustments to asset valuations. We conducted the required intangible assets impairment review during the fourth quarter of 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we impaired $3.3 million of developed technology intangible assets related to a product for which futures sales were anticipated to be significantly lower than the original forecast, and $0.3 million of trademark intangible assets and other intangible assets related to this product and to internal software that has no future use. A considerable amount of judgment is required in calculating this impairment charge, principally in determining market premiums and financial forecasts. Goodwill. We have goodwill on our balance sheet relating to the acquisition of Computer Motion. Goodwill is recorded as the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, rather is tested for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year (more frequently if certain indicators are present). In the event we determine that goodwill has been impaired, we will record an accounting charge for the impairment during the fiscal quarter in which the determination is made. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we performed our assessment of whether there was an indication that goodwill was impaired at December 31, 2003. The quoted market price of our common stock was used to determine fair value for the impairment purpose. Our market capitalization positively impacted the fair value of our reporting unit. We are required to identify our reporting units and determine the carrying value of each reporting unit by assigning the assets and liabilities, including the existing goodwill and intangible assets, to these reporting units. Since we currently operate in one reportable segment, all of the goodwill has been assigned to the enterprise as a whole. We completed the goodwill impairment tests and determined that the goodwill was not impaired at December 31, 2003. A considerable amount of judgment is required in calculating this impairment charge, principally in determining the reporting units. Warranties. Effective July 1, 2003, for certain arrangements recorded under the provisions of EITF No. 00 21, actual warranty costs, which are not separable from other service costs, are expensed in the period incurred. For all other revenue arrangements, we provide for the estimated costs of product warranties at the time revenue is recognized. Our estimate of costs to service our warranty obligations is based upon historical experience and expectation of future conditions. If warranty claim activity and the costs associated with servicing those claims differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability may be required. Contingencies. We are subject to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims related to our products, patents and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. Accounting for income taxes. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against net deferred tax assets. We have recorded a valuation allowance due to uncertainties related to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, primarily consisting of certain net operating losses carried forward, before they expire. The valuation allowance is based on estimates of taxable income by jurisdiction in which we operate and the period over which these deferred tax asset could be realized in the foreseeable future. An adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 52 for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective expected dates of adoption and effects on results of operations and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents FACTORS AFFECTING OPERATING RESULTS OUR FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE BELOW SECURITIES ANALYSTS OR INVESTORS EXPECTATIONS, WHICH COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. Because of our limited operating history, we have limited insight into trends that may emerge in our market and affect our business. The revenue and income potential of our market are unproven, and we may be unable to generate significant revenues. In addition, our costs may be higher than we, securities analysts or investors expect. If we fail to generate sufficient revenues or our costs are higher than we expect, our results of operations will suffer, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Further, future revenue from sales of our products is difficult to forecast because the market for new surgical technologies is still evolving. Our results of operations will depend upon numerous factors, including: the extent to which our products gain market acceptance; actions relating to regulatory matters; our timing and ability to develop our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities; demand for our products; the size and timing of particular sales and any collection delays related to those sales; the progress of surgical training in the use of our products; our ability to develop, introduce and market new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; product quality problems; our ability to protect our proprietary rights and defend against third party challenges; our ability to license additional intellectual property rights; the progress and results of clinical trials; and third party payor reimbursement policies. Our operating results in any particular period will not be a reliable indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock, and the value of your investment, will likely decline. WE EXPERIENCE LONG AND VARIABLE SALES CYCLES, WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR ANY GIVEN QUARTER. Our da Vinci Surgical System has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. These factors may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly during the periods in which our sales volume is low. Because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. These fluctuations also mean that you will not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. BECAUSE THE DA VINCI SYSTEM HAS A HIGH AVERAGE SELLING PRICE, OUR FAILURE TO ADD NEW CUSTOMERS THAT MAKE SIGNIFICANT CAPITAL PURCHASES COULD REDUCE OUR FUTURE REVENUES. During 2003, 2002 and 2001 approximately 66%, 78% and 85%, respectively, of our revenues came from the sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems. Due to the high average selling price of the da Vinci Surgical System, our failure to add new customers that make significant capital purchases of our products could reduce our future revenues. The loss or delay of individual orders could have a significant impact on revenues and operating results. 34 Table of Contents IF OUR PRODUCTS DO NOT ACHIEVE MARKET ACCEPTANCE, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE THE REVENUE NECESSARY TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS. Our products represent a fundamentally new way of performing surgery. Achieving physician, patient and third party payor acceptance of Intuitive surgery as a preferred method of performing surgery will be crucial to our success. If our products fail to achieve market acceptance, hospitals will not purchase our products and we will not be able to generate the revenue necessary to support our business. We believe that physicians and third party payors acceptance of the benefits of procedures performed using our products will be essential for acceptance of our products by patients. Physicians will not recommend the use of our products unless we can demonstrate that they produce results comparable or superior to existing surgical techniques. Even if we can prove the effectiveness of our products through clinical trials, surgeons may elect not to use our products for any number of other reasons. For example, cardiologists may continue to recommend conventional open heart surgery simply because such surgery is already widely accepted. In addition, surgeons may be slow to adopt our products because of the perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products and the uncertainty of reimbursement from third party payors. We expect that there will be a learning process involved for surgical teams to become proficient in the use of our products. Broad use of our products will require training of surgical teams. Market acceptance could be delayed by the time required to complete this training. We may not be able to rapidly train surgical teams in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our products. We cannot be certain that our training programs will be cost effective or sufficient to meet our customers needs. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CONTAINED IN OUR PRODUCTS FROM USE BY THIRD PARTIES, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET WILL BE HARMED. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent and other intellectual property protection for the technologies contained in our products, and on successfully defending our patents and other intellectual property against third party challenges. We will incur substantial costs in obtaining patents and, if necessary, defending our proprietary rights. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. We do not know whether we will obtain the patent protection we seek, or that the protection we do obtain will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. We also do not know whether we will be able to develop additional patentable proprietary technologies. If we fail to obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property, or if any protection we obtain is reduced or eliminated, others could use our intellectual property without compensating us, resulting in harm to our business. We may also determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily challenge a third partys products or patents in litigation or administrative proceedings, including patent interferences or reexaminations. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. OTHERS MAY ASSERT THAT OUR PRODUCTS INFRINGE THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY CAUSE US TO ENGAGE IN COSTLY DISPUTES AND, IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL IN DEFENDING OURSELVES, COULD ALSO CAUSE US TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGES AND PROHIBIT US FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS. We are aware of both United States and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to computer assisted surgery, remote surgery, and minimally invasive surgery. Some of these patents on their face appear broad enough to cover one or more aspects of our present technology, and may cover aspects of our future technology. We do not know whether any of these patents, if challenged, would be held valid, enforceable and infringed. From time to time, we receive, and likely will continue to receive, letters from third parties inviting us to license their patents. We may be sued by, or become involved in an administrative proceeding with, one or more of these third parties. We cannot assure you that a court or administrative body would agree with any arguments or defenses we have concerning invalidity, unenforceability or noninfringement of any third party patent. In addition to the issued patents of which we are aware, other parties may have filed, and in the future are 35 Table of Contents likely to file, patent applications covering surgical products that are similar or identical to ours. We cannot assure you that any patents issuing from applications filed by a third party will not cover our products or will not have priority over our patent applications. The medical device industry has been characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights, and companies have employed such actions to gain a competitive advantage. If third parties assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us, our technical and management personnel will experience a significant diversion of time and effort and we will incur large expenses defending our company. If third parties in any patent action are successful, our patent portfolio may be damaged, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we may be required to stop selling our products or obtain a license which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources or the substantive arguments to defend our patents from infringement or claims of invalidity or unenforceability, or to defend against allegations of infringement of third party patents. In addition, any public announcements related to litigation or administrative proceedings initiated by us, or initiated or threatened against us, could cause our stock price to decline. THE RIGHTS AND MEASURES WE RELY ON TO PROTECT THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY UNDERLYING OUR PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO PREVENT THIRD PARTIES FROM USING OUR TECHNOLOGY, WHICH COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET. In addition to patents, we typically rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical security measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products. If they do not protect our rights adequately, third parties could use our technology, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in developing our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. For a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside the United States. We also realize that our trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology and products without infringing any of our intellectual property rights, or may design around our proprietary technologies. OUR PRODUCTS RELY ON LICENSES FROM THIRD PARTIES, AND IF WE LOSE ACCESS TO THESE TECHNOLOGIES, OUR REVENUES COULD DECLINE. We rely on technology that we license from others, including technology that is integral to our products. We have entered into license agreements with SRI International, IBM Corporation, MIT, Olympus Optical Co., Ltd., and Heartport, Inc., now part of Johnson & Johnson. Any of these agreements may be terminated for breach. If any of these agreements is terminated, we may be unable to reacquire the necessary license on satisfactory terms, or at all. The loss or failure to maintain these licenses could prevent or delay further development or commercialization of our products. TERMINATION OF RELATIONSHIPS WITH FORMER DISTRIBUTORS OF COMPUTER MOTION HAS RESULTED IN BREACH OF CONTRACT LITIGATION. Our integration strategy related to our acquisition of Computer Motion provides that we terminate Computer Motions relationships with a number of companies that served as Computer Motions distributors prior to the acquisition. Several of these former distributors have informed us that they believe that they are entitled to compensation in connection with such termination. We disagree. Also, a former customer of Computer Motion alleges that it has been harmed by representations made to the customer by Computer Motion during the selling 36 Table of Contents process, which representations the customer believes were not fulfilled. We may be unable to resolve some of these claims without litigation. Specifically, two former distributors (one in Italy and the other in Israel) have filed breach of contract lawsuits against us. We have not been formally served in the Israeli lawsuit. The customer has also filed a complaint but we have not been formally served in the customer lawsuit. We are and will contest the lawsuits vigorously. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such litigation at this time and, therefore, cannot estimate the range of possible loss. These proceedings could be expensive to litigate, may be protracted and Computer Motions and or our confidential information may be compromised. Whether or not we are successful in these lawsuits, these proceedings could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources. See Item 3: Legal Proceedings. PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS OF LITIGATION EVENTS MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. During the course of our administrative proceedings and or lawsuits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our stock. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO A LENGTHY AND UNCERTAIN DOMESTIC REGULATORY PROCESS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY DOMESTIC REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS IN THE UNITED STATES. Our products and operations are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. The FDA regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the United States to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In order for us to market certain products for use in the United States, we generally must first obtain clearance from the FDA pursuant to Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA. Clearance under Section 510(k) requires demonstration that a new device is substantially equivalent to another device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status. If we significantly modify our products after they receive FDA clearance, the FDA may require us to submit a separate 510(k) or premarket approval application, or PMA, for the modified product before we are permitted to market the products in the U.S. In addition, if we develop products in the future that are not considered to be substantially equivalent to a device with 510(k) clearance or grandfather status, we will be required to obtain FDA approval by submitting a PMA. The FDA may not act favorably or quickly in its review of our 510(k) or PMA submissions, or we may encounter significant difficulties and costs in our efforts to obtain FDA clearance or approval, all of which could delay or preclude sale of new products in the United States. Furthermore, the FDA may request additional data or require us to conduct further testing, or compile more data, including clinical data and clinical studies, in support of a 510(k) submission. The FDA may also, instead of accepting a 510(k) submission, require us to submit a PMA, which is typically a much more complex and burdensome application than a 510(k). To support a PMA, the FDA would likely require that we conduct one or more clinical studies to demonstrate that the device is safe and effective. We may not be able to meet the requirements to obtain 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, or the FDA may not grant any necessary clearances or approvals. In addition, the FDA may place significant limitations upon the intended use of our products as a condition to a 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. Product applications can also be denied or withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following clearance or approval. Any delays or failure to obtain FDA clearance or approvals of new products we develop, any limitations imposed by the FDA on new product use, or the costs of obtaining FDA clearance or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to conduct a clinical investigation involving human subjects for the purpose of demonstrating the safety and effectiveness of a device, a company must, among other things, apply for and obtain Institutional 37 Table of Contents Review Board, or IRB approval of the proposed investigation. In addition, if the clinical study involves a significant risk (as defined by the FDA) to human health, the sponsor of the investigation must also submit and obtain FDA approval of an investigational device exemption, or IDE, application. Most of our products to date have been considered significant risk devices requiring IDE approval prior to investigational use. We may not be able to obtain FDA and or IRB approval to undertake clinical trials in the U.S. for any new devices we intend to market in the United States in the future. If we obtain such approvals, we may not be able to comply with the IDE and other regulations governing clinical investigations or the data from any such trials may not support clearance or approval of the investigational device. Failure to obtain such approvals or to comply with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. COMPLYING WITH FDA REGULATIONS IS AN EXPENSIVE AND TIME CONSUMING PROCESS, AND OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY FULLY COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT ENFORCEMENT SANCTIONS. Because our products, including the da Vinci Surgical System, are commercially distributed, numerous postmarket regulatory requirements apply, including the following: Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations; the FDAs general prohibition against false or misleading statements in the labeling or promotion of products for unapproved or off label uses; the Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA recalls and field corrective actions taken to reduce a risk to health or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may pose a risk to health; and the Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. We are subject to inspection and marketing surveillance by the FDA to determine our compliance with regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply, it can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a regulatory letter to a public warning letter to more severe civil and criminal sanctions. Our failure to comply with applicable requirements could lead to an enforcement action that may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have modified the labeling, advertising and user training for the da Vinci Surgical System to call out specific procedures that we believe are within the scope of our existing 510(k) clearances. We cannot assure you that the FDA would agree that all such specific procedures are within the scope of the existing general clearance or that we have compiled adequate information to support the safety and efficacy of using the da Vinci Surgical System for all such specific procedures. We also have modified the hardware and software in the da Vinci Surgical System since clearance in ways that we believe do not require new 510(k) clearance. We cannot assure you that the FDA would agree with our determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. Computer Motion also modified the hardware and software in its products subsequent to 510(k) clearance without seeking new clearance. We cannot assure you that the FDA would agree with the determinations not to seek new 510(k) clearance for any of these changes. The FDA could impose enforcement sanctions and or require us to obtain 510(k) clearance for any modification to our products or Computer Motions products. We may be prohibited from marketing the modified device until such 510(k) clearance is granted. In December 2002, the FDA inspected our Sunnyvale manufacturing facility and issued a Form FDA 483 setting forth three observed compliance deficiencies relating to the QSR and two observed deficiencies relating to the Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation. In January 2003, we wrote to the FDA indicating our 38 Table of Contents response to each observation with proposed corrective actions. That same month, the FDA informed us that the adequacy of our promised corrections and actions would be verified during the next inspection of our facility. To date, the FDA has not returned for another inspection and we continue to evaluate and upgrade our QSR compliance. We cannot assure you that, upon reinspection, the FDA will find that our promised corrective actions are appropriate or that they have been adequately implemented. We also cannot assure you that the FDA will not find other deficiencies in our compliance with the QSR and other postmarket regulations. In June 2003, we acquired Computer Motion and are working to integrate its FDA compliance system with our own. Our review is complete, and we identified that Computer Motion has had deficiencies in complaint handling, MDR reporting and Corrections and Removals reporting in the last several years that will require submission of retroactive reports to the FDA. We decided to report 52 MDRs. We believe that our reporting decisions regarding these 52 complaints were conservative in part because many of the complaints likely would not have been reportable if more information were available at this date. Also, to our knowledge, none of the reported events resulted in a death or serious injury, prolonged hospitalization, or medical intervention to prevent death or serious injury. Computer Motion did respond to complaint trends, and it addressed the trends through corrective actions. Accordingly, the incidence of many of the types of events in the reports had been mitigated by June 2003. Our review also suggests that significant complaint trends identified by Computer Motion over the period of four years were addressed by corrective actions, which have proven to be effective over time. We are analyzing whether Computer Motions product modifications without 510(k) clearance complied with the FDAs guidance. If necessary, we will seek additional 510(k) clearance for these product modifications We cannot assure you that the FDA will not seek to impose enforcement sanctions on us for Computer Motion violations preceding our acquisition of Computer Motion, that the FDA will agree that since the acquisition we have corrected all regulatory problems, or that our review of Computer Motions complaint handling will not lead us to initiate recalls or field actions to remedy problems with Computer Motion products already in the field. OUR PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY PROCESSES AND APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS. IF WE DO NOT OBTAIN AND MAINTAIN THE NECESSARY INTERNATIONAL REGULATORY APPROVALS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MARKET AND SELL OUR PRODUCTS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES. To be able to market and sell our products in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, our ability to generate revenue will be harmed. The European Union requires that manufacturers of medical products obtain the right to affix the CE mark to their products before selling them in member countries of the European Union. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to quality assurance standards and compliance with applicable European medical device directives. In order to obtain the right to affix the CE mark to products, a manufacturer must obtain certification that its processes meet certain European quality standards. In January 1999, we received permission to affix the CE mark to our da Vinci Surgical System and EndoWrist instruments. If we modify existing products or develop new products in the future, including new instruments, we may need to apply for permission to affix the CE mark to such products. In addition, we will be subject to annual regulatory audits in order to maintain the CE mark permissions we have already obtained. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain permission to affix the CE mark for new or modified products or that we will continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the permissions we have already received. If we are unable to maintain permission to affix the CE mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the European Union. 39 Table of Contents IF INSTITUTIONS OR SURGEONS ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN REIMBURSEMENT FROM THIRD PARTY PAYORS FOR PROCEDURES USING OUR PRODUCTS, OR IF REIMBURSEMENT IS INSUFFICIENT TO COVER THE COSTS OF PURCHASING OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT SALES TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS. Domestic institutions will typically bill the services performed with our products to various third party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs and private insurance plans. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if government and private payors policies do not permit reimbursement for surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business. Our success in international markets also depends upon the eligibility of our products for reimbursement through government sponsored health care payment systems and third party payors. Reimbursement practices vary significantly by country. Many international markets have government managed healthcare systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. Other foreign markets have both private insurance systems and government managed systems that control reimbursement for new products and procedures. Market acceptance of our products may depend on the availability and level of reimbursement in any country within a particular time. In addition, health care cost containment efforts similar to those we face in the United States are prevalent in many of the other countries in which we intend to sell our products and these efforts are expected to continue. BECAUSE OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, CUSTOMERS MAY CHOOSE TO PURCHASE OUR COMPETITORS PRODUCTS OR MAY NOT ACCEPT INTUITIVE SURGERY, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUE AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. Intuitive surgery is a new technology that must compete with established minimally invasive surgery and open surgery. These procedures are widely accepted in the medical community and in many cases have a long history of use. We also face competition from several companies that are developing new approaches and products for the minimally invasive surgery market. In addition, we may face competition from companies that develop robotic and computer assisted surgical systems in the future. Our revenues may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than our products. If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues will suffer. We may not be able to maintain or improve our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater resources. In many cases, the medical conditions that can be treated using our products can also be treated by drugs or other medical devices and procedures. Many of these alternative treatments are also widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. In addition, technological advances could make such treatments more effective or less expensive than using our products, which could render our products obsolete or unmarketable. We cannot be certain that physicians will use our products to replace or supplement established treatments or that our products will be competitive with current or future technologies. IF DEFECTS ARE DISCOVERED IN OUR PRODUCTS, WE MAY INCUR ADDITIONAL UNFORESEEN COSTS, HOSPITALS MAY NOT PURCHASE OUR PRODUCTS AND OUR REPUTATION MAY SUFFER. Our products incorporate mechanical parts and computer software, either of which can contain errors or failures, especially when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after commercial shipment. Because our products are designed to be used to perform complex surgical procedures, we expect that our customers will have an increased sensitivity to such defects. We cannot assure you that our products will not experience errors or performance problems in the future. If we experience flaws or performance problems, any of the following could occur: delays in product shipments; loss of revenue; delay in market acceptance; 40 Table of Contents diversion of our resources; damage to our reputation; increased service or warranty costs; or product liability claims. WE MAY ENCOUNTER MANUFACTURING PROBLEMS OR DELAYS THAT COULD RESULT IN LOST REVENUE. We may encounter difficulties in the production of our products, including: problems involving production yields; quality control and assurance; component supply shortages; shortages of qualified personnel; and compliance with state, federal and foreign regulations. Manufacturing our products is a complex process. If demand for our products exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders. If we are unable to establish and maintain larger scale manufacturing capabilities, our ability to generate revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace would be damaged. IF OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES DO NOT CONTINUE TO MEET FEDERAL, STATE OR EUROPEAN MANUFACTURING STANDARDS, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO TEMPORARILY CEASE ALL OR PART OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN PRODUCT DELIVERY DELAYS AND LOST REVENUE. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities and our operations will continue to be regulated by the FDA for compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements contained in the FDAs Quality System Regulations, or QSR. We are also required to comply with International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, quality system standards in order to produce products for sale in Europe. If we fail to continue to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards, we may be required to cease all or part of our operations until we comply with these regulations. We are currently in compliance with ISO standards. The FDA inspected our Mountain View and Sunnyvale facilities in March 2000 and December 2002, respectively. The Good Manufacturing Practice issues raised by the FDA during the inspections either were satisfactorily resolved with the FDA, or we believe can be resolved by us to the FDAs satisfaction, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We continue to be subject to FDA inspections at any time. Maintaining such compliance is difficult and costly. We cannot be certain that our facilities will be found to comply with Good Manufacturing Practice requirements or ISO standards in future inspections and audits by regulatory authorities. The FDA inspected the Goleta facilities of Computer Motion in 1998 and noted deficiencies in Computer Motions systems for reviewing and reporting product related complaints and defect information. We have determined that these deficiencies may not have been addressed. While the Goleta manufacturing facility has been closed and production of certain product has been transferred to our Sunnyvale facility, these issues raised by FDA must nonetheless be resolved. We are presently addressing the situation to resolve all the issues to our own and FDAs satisfaction, although we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, nor can we assess what regulatory impact, if any, this may have on our company. 41 Table of Contents The state of California also requires that we maintain a license to manufacture medical devices. Our facilities and manufacturing processes were inspected in February 1998. In March 1998, we passed the inspection and received a device manufacturing license from the California Department of Health Services. In March 2002, our facilities and manufacturing processes in our Sunnyvale facility were re inspected by the Food and Drug Branch, or FDB, and we were issued an updated device manufacturing license for our Sunnyvale facility. We are subject to periodic inspections by the California Department of Health Services and, if we are unable to maintain this license following any future inspections, we will be unable to manufacture or ship any products. OUR RELIANCE ON SOLE AND SINGLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS IN A TIMELY MANNER OR WITHIN BUDGET. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole source suppliers or single source suppliers. We purchase components through purchase orders rather than long term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of inventory. The disruption or termination of the supply of components could cause a significant increase in the costs of these components, which could affect our profitability. A disruption or termination in the supply of components could also result in our inability to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. Furthermore, if we are required to change the manufacturer of a key component of our products, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. THE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD RESULT IN PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT COULD BE EXPENSIVE, DIVERT MANAGEMENTS ATTENTION AND HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our business exposes us to significant risks of product liability claims. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our products were to cause injury or death. There is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of our products might necessitate a product recall. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. Particularly as sales of our products increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in significant legal defense costs. A product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm our reputation or result in a decline in revenues. IF WE LOSE OUR KEY PERSONNEL OR ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL, OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE WILL BE HARMED. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. Our product development plans depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain engineers with experience in mechanics, software and optics. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success, and competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among technology and healthcare companies, and universities. The loss of any of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. INTERNATIONAL SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS ACCOUNT FOR A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR REVENUES, WHICH EXPOSES US TO RISKS INHERENT IN INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS. OUR GROWTH MAY BE LIMITED IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES. Our business currently depends in large part on our activities in Europe and other foreign markets. Sales to markets outside of the United States accounted for approximately 24%, 18% and 35% of our sales for the years 42 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. We are subject to a number of challenges that specifically relate to our international business activities. These challenges include: failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; and building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations. Currently, almost half of our international sales are denominated in United States dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets. If we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business. THE CONVICTION OF ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP ON OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE CHARGES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT ARTHUR ANDERSENS ABILITY TO SATISFY CLAIMS ARISING FROM THE PROVISION OF AUDITING SERVICES TO COMPUTER MOTION. Arthur Andersen LLP audited Computer Motions financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000. On March 14, 2002, an indictment was unsealed charging Arthur Andersen with federal obstruction of justice arising from the governments investigation of Enron Corp. On June 15, 2002, Arthur Andersen was convicted of these charges. The impact of this conviction on Arthur Andersens financial condition may adversely affect the ability of Arthur Andersen to satisfy any claims arising from its provision of auditing services to Computer Motion. ITEM 7A: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK We are not subject to any meaningful market risks related to currency, commodity prices or similar matters. We are sensitive to short term interest rate fluctuations to the extent that such fluctuations impact the interest income we receive on the investment of our cash and cash equivalents and investments. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. Some of the securities that we invest in may have market risk. This means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. For example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the fair value amount of our investment will probably decline. To minimize this risk in the future, we intend to maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short term investments in a variety of securities. We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities as fixed rate if the rate of return on such instruments remains fixed over their term. These fixed rate investments include commercial paper and government and non government debt securities. We classify our cash equivalents and marketable securities as variable rate if the rate of return on such investments varies based on the change in a predetermined index or set of indices during their term. These variable rate investments primarily included money market accounts. The average duration of all of our investments as of December 31, 2003 was approximately 1.44 years. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, approximately 37% and 36%, respectively, of our investment portfolio was composed of investments with original maturities of one year 43 Table of Contents or less. The following table presents the amounts of our short term investments that may be subject to interest rate risk and the weighted average interest rates by year of maturity ($ in thousands): As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Weighted AverageInterest Rate FairValue Weighted AverageInterest Rate FairValue Variable rate securities $ 1.51 % $ 8,600 Fixed rate securities (mature in 2004) 1.76 % $ 37,736 5.08 % $ 6,429 Fixed rate securities (mature in 2005) 4.79 % $ 23,541 6.04 % $ 16,767 Fixed rate securities (mature in 2006) 2.18 % $ 40,337 5.90 % $ 5,954 Fixed rate securities (mature in 2007) $ 5.25 % $ 4,082 Fluctuations in interest rates would also impact interest expense on future fixed rate notes payable for equipment financing contracts, should we elect to finance future equipment purchases. The following table summarizes installment notes outstanding as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the associated interest rates by year of maturity ($ in thousands): As of December 31, 2003 As of December 31, 2002 Final Installment Note PayableOutstanding WeightedAverage Rate Note PayableOutstanding WeightedAverage Rate 2003 $ $ 42 5.11 % 2004 118 8.50 % 716 8.77 % 2005 1,607 7.55 % 2,591 7.59 % $ 1,725 7.62 % $ 3,349 7.82 % Less current portion (1,030 ) (1,511 ) Long term portion $ 695 $ 1,838 The majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, since a portion of our operations consists of sales activities outside of the United States, we have entered into transactions in other currencies, primarily the euro. On a limited basis, we use forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce a portion of our exposure to foreign currency risk from operational and balance sheet exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such exposures result from sales denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts are typically short term in nature (i.e., less than 6 months). For the years ended December 2003, 2002 and 2001, sales denominated in foreign currencies were 12%, 7% and 13%, respectively, of total sales. We did not enter into forward foreign exchange contracts in 2003. Of the sales denominated in foreign currencies in 2002 and 2001, we entered into forward foreign exchange contracts for 35% and 32%, respectively. We have not designated any of our forward foreign exchange contracts for hedge accounting under FAS 133. The forward contracts, which have only nominal intrinsic value at the time of purchase, are denominated in the same foreign currency in which the sales are denominated. The gains and losses on these forward contracts as well as the offsetting losses and gains on the hedged receivables are recognized depending on whether the derivative instrument is designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, if so, the nature of the hedging activity. During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, we did not designate and qualify any forward contracts as part of a hedging relationship. Accordingly, changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge treatment, as well as the ineffective portion of a particular hedge, are recognized currently in earnings. All derivative instruments are recorded as either current assets or accrued liabilities in the balance sheet at fair value. 44 Table of Contents We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hold or issue leveraged derivative financial instruments. We have not entered into any forward contracts since July 2002, and as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, we had no outstanding derivative instruments. When entering into forward contracts during 2002 and 2001, we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that the euro exchange rate could decline by 10% in the near term. Such an adverse change, if not hedged, could have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of approximately $0.2 million during each of 2002 and 2001. Based on these factors, we entered into forward contracts in efforts to reduce this exposure. Foreign currency fluctuations resulted in $0.4 million of foreign exchange gain for the year ended December 31, 2003. There was no material impact on our results of operations and financial position during fiscal years 2002 and 2001. 45 Table of Contents 
 
