FILE:KIM/KIM-8K-20050203150535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant.s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant.s Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 -------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): FEBRUARY 1, 2005 KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) MARYLAND 1-10899 13-2744380 - ------------------------------- --------------- ------------------- (State or Other Jurisdiction of (Commission (I.R.S. Employer Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 3333 NEW HYDE PARK ROAD NEW HYDE PARK, NEW YORK 11042-0020 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) -------------------- (516) 869-9000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) N/A (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) -------------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SECTION 5 - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT ITEM 5.03 AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS; CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR. Amended and Restated Bylaws On February 1, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") authorized two amendments to the Company's bylaws and then approved amended and restated bylaws for the Company (the "Amended Bylaws"), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3(ii) and which is incorporated herein by reference. The Amended Bylaws became effective as of February 1, 2005. One amendment was adopted to comply with Maryland law, which requires that bylaws name either the day of the annual meeting or a 31-day period in which such annual meeting is held. In accordance with this requirement, Article II, Section II of the Amended Bylaws states that the annual meeting shall be held each year in the month of May. The second amendment was adopted to comply with requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the New York Stock Exchange that only independent directors shall serve on certain Board committees. Accordingly, the statement that the President of the Company shall serve as an ex officio member of all committees was deleted from Article IV, Section 7 of the Amended Bylaws. ITEM 5.05 AMENDMENTS TO THE REGISTRANT'S CODE OF ETHICS, OR WAIVER OF A PROVISION OF THE CODE OF ETHICS. Amendments to the Code of Ethics Previously, the Board adopted a written Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Ethics") for the Company that applies to members of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and the other executive officers of the Company. On February 1, 2005, the Board amended the Code of Ethics and the amendments were effective as of the date of approval. The amendments to the Code of Ethics require notification of the Company's audit committee upon the grant of any waiver of the Code of Ethics with respect to any person who is not a director, executive officer or other principal officer of the Company. The Code of Ethics continues to require that directors, executive officers and other principal officers of the Company can obtain waivers of the Code of Ethics only from the Board or an appropriate committee of the Board. In addition, the amendments to the Code of Ethics contain enhanced provisions designed to avoid potential conflicts of interest, as well as other technical, administrative and non-substantive amendments. The foregoing summary of the amendments to the Code of Ethics is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the amended Code of Ethics, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 14.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Document Description ----------- -------------------- 3(ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws of Kimco Realty Corporation 14.1 Code of Ethics of Kimco Realty Corporation
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: February 3, 2005 KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION (registrant) By: /s/ Michael V. Pappagallo ------------------------- Name: Michael V. Pappagallo Its: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Document Description - ----------- -------------------- 3(ii) Amended and Restated Bylaws of Kimco Realty Corporation 14.1 Code of Ethics of Kimco Realty Corporation

Exhibit 3(ii) Bylaws of Kimco Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation, as amended on February 1, 2005 ARTICLE I OFFICES ------- Section 1. Principal Office. The principal executive offices of Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Corporation") shall be located at such place or places as the Board of Directors may designate. Section 2. Additional Offices. The Corporation may also have additional offices at such other places as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require. ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS ------------------------ Section 1. Place. Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place designated by the Board of Directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the principal executive office of the Corporation. Section 2. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the Board of Directors and during the month of May in each year. At each annual meeting, directors shall be elected and any other proper business may be transacted. Section 3. Quorum. A majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders, the holders of which are present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law, the charter or these Bylaws. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum and the votes present may continue to transact business until adjournment. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, a majority of the voting stock represented in person or by proxy may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat. Section 4. Voting. When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present, represented in person or by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of law, the charter or these Bylaws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
Section 5. Proxies. A stockholder may cast the votes entitled to be cast by the shares of stock owned of record by the stockholder in person or by proxy executed by the stockholder or by the stockholder's duly authorized agent in any manner permitted by law. Such proxy or evidence of authorization of such proxy shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation before or at the meeting. No proxy shall be valid more than 11 months after its date unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock having voting power, registered in his name on the books of the Corporation on the record date set by the Board of Directors as provided in Article V, Section 6 hereof. All elections of directors shall be by a plurality vote of the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting of stockholders. Section 6. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose, or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute or by the charter, may be called by the President and shall be called by the President or the Secretary at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors, or at the request in writing of stockholders owning not less than twenty five percent (25%) of the authorized shares of the Corporation issued and outstanding, and entitled to vote. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. A special meeting need not be called to consider any matter which is substantially the same as a matter voted on at any special meeting of the stockholders held during the preceding twelve (12) months unless such meeting is requested by stockholders entitled to cast a majority of all votes entitled to be cast as such meeting. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice. Section 7. Notice. Not less than ten nor more than 60 days before each meeting of stockholders, the Secretary shall give to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting and to each stockholder not entitled to vote who is entitled to notice of the meeting written or printed notice stating the time and place of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting or as otherwise may be required by any statute, the purpose for which the meeting is called, either by mail, by presenting it to such stockholder personally, by leaving it at the stockholder's residence or usual place of business or by any other means permitted by Maryland law. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the stockholder at the stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. Section 8. Organization and Conduct. Every meeting of stockholders shall be conducted by an individual appointed by the Board of Directors to be chairman of the meeting or, in the absence of such appointment, by the Chairman of the Board or, in the case of a vacancy in the office or absence of the Chairman of the Board, by one of the following officers present at the meeting: the Vice Chairman of the Board, if there be one, the President, the Vice Presidents in their order of rank and seniority, or, in the absence of such officers, a chairman chosen by the stockholders by the vote of a majority of the votes cast by stockholders present in person or by proxy. The Secretary, or, in the Secretary's absence, an Assistant Secretary, or in the absence of both the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries, a person appointed by the Board of Directors or, in the absence of such appointment, a person appointed by the chairman of the meeting shall act as 2
Secretary. In the event that the Secretary presides at a meeting of the stockholders, an Assistant Secretary shall record the minutes of the meeting. The order of business and all other matters of procedure at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting may prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and take such action as, in the discretion of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, (a) restricting admission to the time set for the commencement of the meeting; (b) limiting attendance at the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized proxies or other such persons as the chairman of the meeting may determine; (c) limiting participation at the meeting on any matter to stockholders of record of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, their duly authorized proxies or other such persons as the chairman of the meeting may determine; (d) limiting the time allotted to questions or comments by participants; (e) maintaining order and security at the meeting; (f) removing any stockholder or any other person who refuses to comply with meeting procedures, rules or guidelines as set forth by the chairman of the meeting; and (g) recessing or adjourning the meeting to a later date and time and place announced at the meeting. Unless otherwise determined by the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure. Section 9. Action by Written Consent. Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth such action, is signed by each stockholder entitled to vote the matter and any other stockholder entitled to notice of a meeting of stockholders (but not to vote thereat) has waived in writing any right to dissent from such action, and such consent and waiver are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the stockholders. Section 10. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Charter of the Corporation or these Bylaws, Title 3, Subtitle 7 of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or any successor statute (the "MGCL"), shall not apply to any acquisition by any person of shares of stock of the Corporation. This section may be repealed, in whole or in part, any time, whether before an acquisition of control shares and, upon such repeal, may, to the extent provided by any successor bylaw, apply to any prior or subsequent control share acquisition. ARTICLE III DIRECTORS --------- Section 1. Number, Qualification. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be not less than three (3) nor more than fifteen (15). The number of directors of the Corporation may be changed by majority vote of the Board of Directors. The directors need not be stockholders. A director shall be an individual at least 21 years of age who is not under legal disability. Section 2. The directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the stockholders, except as provided in Section 3 of this Article, and each director elected shall hold office for a term of one (1) year and until his successor is elected and qualified; provided, however, that unless otherwise restricted by the charter or by law, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, either with or without cause, from the Board of Directors at any meeting of stockholders by a majority of the stock represented and entitled to vote thereat. 3
Section 3. Vacancies on the Board of Directors by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office, or otherwise, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. The directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until their successors are duly elected and shall qualify, unless sooner displaced. If there are no directors in office, then an election of directors may be held in the manner provided by statute. Section 4. The property and business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute, the charter or these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS - ---------------------------------- Section 5. The directors may hold their meetings and have one or more offices, and keep the books of the Corporation outside of the State of Maryland. Section 6. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be hold without notice at such time and place as shall from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Section 7. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or at least two of the directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix any place as the place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Directors called by them. The Board of Directors may provide, by resolution, the time and place for the holding of special meetings of the Board of Directors without other notice of such resolution. Section 8. Notice of any special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be delivered personally or by telephone, electronic mail, facsimile transmission, United States mail or courier to each director at his or her business or residence address. Notice by personal delivery, telephone, electronic mail or facsimile transmission shall be given at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. Notice by United States mail shall be given at least three days prior to the meeting. Notice by courier shall be given at least two days prior to the meeting. Telephone notice shall be deemed to be given when the director or his or her agent is personally given such notice in a telephone call to which the director or his or her agent is a party. Electronic mail notice shall be deemed to be given upon transmission of the message to the electronic mail address given to the Corporation by the director. Facsimile transmission notice shall be deemed to be given upon completion of the transmission of the message to the number given to the Corporation by the director and receipt of a completed answer-back indicating receipt. Notice by United States mail shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail properly addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. Notice by courier shall be deemed to be given when deposited with or delivered to a courier properly addressed. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual, regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be stated in the notice, unless specifically required by statute or these Bylaws. 4
Section 9. At all meetings of the Board of Directors a majority of the authorized number of directors shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum, shall be the act of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute, the charter or these Bylaws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present. If only one director is authorized, such sole director shall constitute a quorum. Section 10. Unless otherwise restricted by the charter or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Section 11. Unless otherwise restricted by the charter or these Bylaws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS - ----------------------- Section 12. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each such committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to amending the charter, (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors, fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the Corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation of fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of the shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending these Bylaws; and, unless the resolution or the charter expressly so provides, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock or to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger. 5
Section 13. Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board of Directors when required. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS - ------------------------- Section 14. Unless otherwise restricted by the charter or these Bylaws, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors, provided, however, that no officer of the Corporation shall receive any compensation for serving as a director of the Corporation. The directors who are not officers of the Corporation shall be paid their expenses, if any, and a fixed sum for their attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and each committee meeting. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings. INDEMNIFICATION - --------------- Section 15. To the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law in effect from time to time, the Corporation, without requiring a preliminary determination of the ultimate entitlement to indemnification, shall indemnify and shall pay or reimburse reasonable expenses to (a) any individual who is a present or former director or officer of the Corporation and who is made a party to the proceeding by reason of his service in that capacity or (b) any individual who, while a director of the Corporation and at the request of the Corporation, serves or has served another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or any other enterprise as a director, officer, partner or trustee of such corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise and who is made a party to the proceeding by reason of his service in that capacity. The Corporation may, with the approval of its board of directors, provide such indemnification to a person who served a predecessor of the Corporation in any of the capacities described in (a) or (b) above and to any employee or agent of the Corporation or a predecessor of the Corporation. Neither the amendment nor repeal of this Section, nor the adoption or amendment of any other provision of the Bylaws or charter of the Corporation inconsistent with this Section, shall apply to or affect in any respect the applicability of the preceding paragraph with respect to any act or failure to act which occurred prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption. TRANSACTIONS WITH INTERESTED DIRECTORS - -------------------------------------- Section 16. No transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, firm, association or other entity in which one or more of its directors are directors or officers or this Corporation or are financially interested ("Interested Directors"), shall be either void or voidable for this reason alone, provided that such transaction shall be approved in a manner consistent with Section 2-419 of the MGCL. 6
Section 17. The Corporation shall not enter into any transactions or agreements with KC Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation except pursuant to the Management Agreement and Option Agreement, each dated as of November 21, 1991 between the Corporation and KC Holdings, Inc., unless any such transaction is approved by a majority of the directors of the Corporation who are neither employees of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation ("Independent Directors"). ARTICLE IV OFFICERS - -------- Section 1. The officers of this corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall include a President and a Secretary. The Corporation may also have at the discretion of the Board of Directors such other officers as are desired, including a Chairman of the Board of Directors, one or more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of this Article IV. In the event there are two or more Vice Presidents, then one or more may be designated as Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, or other similar or dissimilar title. At the time of the election of officers, the directors may by resolution determine the order of their rank. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws otherwise provide. Section 2. The Board of Directors, at its first meeting after each annual meeting of stockholders, shall choose the officers of the Corporation. Section 3. The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers and agents as it shall deem necessary who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board. Section 4. The salaries of all officers and agents of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. Section 5. The officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualify in their stead. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. If the office of any officer or officers becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy shall be filled by the Board of Directors. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS - ---------------------------------- Section 6. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may be from time to time assigned to him by the Board of Directors or prescribed by these Bylaws. If there is no President, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall in addition be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 7 of this Article IV. 7
PRESIDENT - --------- Section 7. Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be such an officer, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and officers of the Corporation. He shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if there be none, at all meetings of the Board of Directors. He shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president and chief executive officer of corporations, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws. VICE PRESIDENTS - --------------- Section 8. In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice Presidents in order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors, or if not ranked, the Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the President, and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Vice Presidents shall have such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them, respectively, by the Board of Directors. SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARY - --------------------------------- Section 9. The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the stockholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose; and shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required by the Board of Directors. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws. He shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation, and when authorized by the Board, affix the same to any instrument requiring it, and when so affixed it shall be attested by his signature or by the signature of an Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest to the affixing by his signature. Section 10. The Assistant Secretary, or if there be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board of Directors, or if there be no such determination, the Assistant Secretary designated by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall, perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. 8
TREASURER AND ASSISTANT TREASURER - --------------------------------- Section 11. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys, and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation, in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, he shall give the Corporation a bond, in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors, for the faithful performance of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation. Section 12. The Assistant Treasurer, or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant Treasurers in the order determined by the Board of Directors, or if there be no such determination, the Assistant Treasurer designated by the Board of Directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. ARTICLE V CERTIFICATES OF STOCK - --------------------- Section 1. Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, this Section shall not be interpreted to limit the authority of the Board of Directors to issue some or all of the shares of any or all of its classes or series without certificates. Each stockholder, upon written request to the secretary of the Corporation, shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates which shall represent and certify the number of shares of each class of stock held by him in the Corporation. Each stockholder, upon written request to the secretary of the Corporation, shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates which shall represent and certify the number of shares of each class of stock held by him in the Corporation. Each certificate shall be signed by the chairman of the board, the president or a vice president and countersigned by the secretary or an assistant secretary or the treasurer or an assistant treasurer and may be sealed with the seal, if any, of the Corporation. The signatures may be either manual or facsimile. Certificates shall be consecutively numbered; and if the Corporation shall, from time to time, issue several classes of stock, each class may have its own number series. A certificate is valid and may be issued whether or not an officer who signed it is still an officer when it is issued. Each certificate representing shares which are restricted as to their transferability or voting powers, which are preferred or limited as to their dividends or as to their allocable portion of the assets upon liquidation or which are redeemable at the option of the Corporation, shall have a statement of such restriction, limitation, preference or redemption provision, or a summary thereof, plainly stated on the certificate. If the Corporation has authority to issue stock of more than one class, the certificate shall contain on the face or back a full statement or summary of the designations and any preferences, conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms and conditions of redemption of each class of stock and, if the Corporation is authorized to issue any preferred or special class in series, the differences in the relative rights and preferences between the shares of each series to the extent they have been set and the authority of the Board of Directors to set the relative rights and preferences of subsequent series. In lieu of such statement or summary, the certificate may state that the Corporation will furnish a full statement of such information to any stockholder upon request and without charge. If any class of stock is restricted by the Corporation as to transferability, the certificate shall contain a full statement of the restriction or state that the Corporation will furnish information about the restrictions to the stockholder on request and without charge. 9
LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES - -------------------------------------- Section 2. The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed. TRANSFERS OF STOCK - ------------------ Section 3. Upon surrender to the Corporation, or the transfer agent of the Corporation, of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. FIXING RECORD DATE - ------------------ Section 4. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date which shall not be more than 90 nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 90 days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS - ----------------------- Section 5. The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and accordingly shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, save as expressly provided by the laws of the State of Maryland. 10
ARTICLE VI GENERAL PROVISIONS ------------------ DIVIDENDS - --------- Section 1. Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the charter, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of law and the charter. Section 2. Before payment of any dividend there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purpose as the directors shall think conducive to the interests of the Corporation, and the directors may abolish any such reserve. CHECKS - ------ Section 3. All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. FISCAL YEAR - ----------- Section 4. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. SEAL - ---- Section 5. The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Incorporated Maryland." Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise. NOTICES - ------- Section 6. Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of the law, the charter or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed to be equivalent. ANNUAL STATEMENT - ---------------- Section 7. The Board of Directors shall present at each annual meeting, and at any special meeting of the stockholders when called for by vote of the stockholders, a full and clear statement of the business and condition of the Corporation. 11
ARTICLE VII AMENDMENTS - ---------- Section 1. BY DIRECTORS. The board of directors shall have the power to adopt, alter or repeal any bylaws of the Corporation and to make new bylaws, except that the board of directors shall not alter or repeal this Section or any bylaws made by the stockholders. Section 2. BY STOCKHOLDERS. The stockholders shall have the power to adopt, alter or repeal any bylaws of the Corporation and to make new bylaws. 12

Exhibit 14.1 KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION CODE OF CONDUCT Dear Kimco Associate: Kimco Realty Corporation is dedicated to conducting its business consistent with the highest standards of business ethics. We have an obligation to our Associates, shareholders, customers, tenants, community representatives and other business contacts to be honest, fair and forthright in all of our business activities. As an Associate of the Company, you are faced every day with a number of business decisions. It is your personal responsibility to uphold the Company's high standards of business ethics in each and every one of these situations. It is not possible for our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to address every situation that you may face. If you use your good business judgment and experience, the majority of your business decisions are not likely to raise ethical issues. When you are faced with an ethical issue, we hope that this Code will serve as a guide to help you make the right choice. We encourage you to take this opportunity to review our policies and to discuss any questions you may have with the Vice President of Human Resources directly. The guidelines set out in this Code are to be followed at all levels of this organization by our directors, officers, Associates and agents. We rely on you to uphold our core values and conduct our business honestly, fairly and with integrity. Sincerely, Milton Cooper and on Behalf of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer
INTRODUCTION PURPOSE This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code") contains general guidelines for conducting the business of the Company consistent with the highest standards of business ethics, and is intended to qualify as a "code of ethics" within the meaning of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. This Code should be considered to be a minimum standard. To the extent this Code requires a higher standard than required by commercial practice or applicable laws, rules or regulations, we adhere to these higher standards. This Code applies to all of our directors, officers, Associates and agents, wherever they are located and whether they work for the Company on a full or part-time basis. We refer to all persons covered by this Code as "Company Associates" or simply "Associates." We also refer to our principal executive officer, our principal financial officer, our principal accounting officer and our controller as our "principal officers." SEEKING HELP AND INFORMATION This Code is not intended to be a comprehensive rulebook and cannot address every situation that you may face. If you are faced with a difficult business decision that is not addressed in this Code, ask yourself the following questions: o Is it legal? o Is it honest and fair? o Is it in the best interests of the Company? o How does this make me feel about myself and the Company? o Would I feel comfortable if an account of my actions was published with my name in the newspaper? If you still feel uncomfortable about a situation or have any doubts about whether it is consistent with the Company's high ethical standards, seek help. We encourage you to contact the Vice President of Human Resources. In addition, the Company has established on its Intranet website the Accounting Ethics Helpline (the "Helpline"), at kci.kimcorealty.com. By accessing this Helpline, all Associates may e-mail any reports with respect to this Code or with respect to accounting and auditing matters. This Helpline is anonymous. The Company will address each report submitted on the Helpline. 2
REPORTING VIOLATIONS OF THE CODE All Associates have a duty to report any known or suspected violation of this Code, including any violation of laws, rules, regulations or policies that apply to the Company. Reporting a known or suspected violation of this Code by others should not be considered an act of disloyalty, but an action to safeguard the reputation and integrity of the Company and its Associates. If you know of or suspect a violation of this Code, immediately report the conduct to the Vice President of Human Resources, who will work directly with you to investigate your concern, or you may use the Helpline and report the violation anonymously. It is the Company's policy that any Associate who violates this Code will be subject to appropriate discipline, including potential termination of employment, determined by the Vice President of Human Resources based upon the facts and circumstances of each particular situation. An Associate accused of violating this Code will be given an opportunity to present his or her version of the events at issue to the Vice President of Human Resources prior to any determination of appropriate discipline. Any Associate who fails to report known or suspected violations by another Associate may also be subject to appropriate discipline. Furthermore, Associates who violate the law or this Code may expose themselves to substantial civil damages, criminal fines and prison terms. The Company may also face substantial fines and penalties in such situations, not to mention damage to the Company's reputation and standing in the community. In short, your conduct as an Associate of the Company, if it does not comply with the law or with this Code, can result in serious consequences for both you and the Company. CONFIDENTIALITY AND POLICY AGAINST RETALIATION All questions and reports of known or suspected violations of the law or this Code will be treated with sensitivity and discretion. The Vice President of Human Resources and the Company will protect your confidentiality to the extent possible consistent with law and the Company's need to investigate your concern. The Company strictly prohibits retaliation against an Associate who, in good faith, seeks help or reports known or suspected violations. Any reprisal or retaliation against an Associate because the Associate, in good faith, sought help or filed a report will be subject to disciplinary action, including potential termination of employment. WAIVERS OF THE CODE Waivers of this Code will be granted on a case-by-case basis and only in extraordinary circumstances. Waivers of this Code for Associates may be made only by an executive officer of the Company at the request and with the concurrence of the Vice President of Human Resources. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors shall be notified upon the grant of any such waiver. Any waiver of this Code for our directors, executive officers or other principal officers may be made only by our Board of Directors or the appropriate committee of our Board of Directors and will be promptly disclosed to the public as required by laws of the New York Stock Exchange. 3
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IDENTIFYING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST You should always bear in mind that the reputation of the Company's honesty, fairness, and business integrity is vital to success and therefore a paramount concern. You should conduct yourself accordingly, and always avoid even the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. All Associates are expected to maintain the highest of ethical standards. A conflict of interest occurs when an Associate's private interest interferes, or appears to interfere, in any way with the interests of the Company as a whole. You should actively avoid any private interest that may influence your ability to act in the best interests of the Company or that makes it difficult to perform your work objectively and effectively. It is difficult to list all of the ways in which a conflict of interest may arise. No Associate should be employed by, serve as a director of, or provide any services to a company that is a customer, tenant or competitor of the Company. No Associate should have a significant financial interest (ownership or otherwise) in any company that is a customer, tenant or competitor of the Company. A "significant financial interest" means (i) ownership of greater than 1% of the equity of a customer, tenant or competitor or (ii) an investment in a customer, tenant or competitor that represents more than 5% of the total assets of the Associate. No Associate should obtain loans or guarantees of personal obligations from, or enter into any other personal financial transaction with, any company that is a customer, tenant or competitor of the Company. This guideline does not prohibit arms-length transactions with banks, brokerage firms or other financial institutions. No Associate should serve on a board of directors or trustees or on a committee of any entity (whether profit or not-for-profit) whose interests reasonably would be expected to conflict with those of the Company. In general, no Associate may obtain improper personal benefits or favors because of his or her position with the Company. Transactions with outside firms must be conducted within a framework established and controlled by the Company. Business dealings with outside firms should not result in unusual gains for the outside firm or the Associate. Unusual gain refers to bribes, product bonuses, special fringe benefits, unusual price breaks, and other windfalls designed to ultimately benefit either the outside firm or the Associate. Dealings that could be interpreted to involve unusual gain to any of the parties involved require specific approval from the Vice President of Human Resources. 4
An actual or potential conflict of interest occurs when an Associate is in a position to influence a decision that may result in a personal gain for that Associate or for a relative of the Associate as a result of the Company's business dealings. Personal gain may result not only in cases where an Associate or relative has a significant financial interest in, or is employed by, a firm with which the Company does business, but also when an Associate or relative receives any loan, kickback, bribe, substantial gift or special consideration as a result of any transaction or business dealings involving the Company. Please see "Gifts and Entertainment" below for additional guidelines in this area. Associates and their relatives shall exercise caution, prudence and good judgment before accepting any gift, entertainment, services, or promises of future benefits from any person, group or agency who might benefit or appear to benefit from the Associate's connection with the Company. For the purpose of this Code, a relative is any person who is related by blood or marriage, or whose relationship with the Associate is similar to that of persons who are related by blood or marriage. DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Company requires that Associates fully disclose any situations that reasonably could be expected to give rise to a conflict of interest. If you suspect that you have a conflict of interest, or something that others could reasonably perceive as a conflict of interest, you must report it immediately to the Vice President of Human Resources. While such situations are not automatically prohibited, they are not desirable and may only be waived by an executive officer of the Company at the request and with the concurrence of the Vice President of Human Resources. Conflicts of interest of our directors, executive officers or other principal officers may only be waived by our Board of Directors or the appropriate committee of our Board of Directors and will be promptly disclosed to the public. With respect to relatives, Associates should report to the Vice President of Human Resources any situation involving relatives that reasonably could be expected to give rise to a conflict of interest. The Vice President of Human Resources will consider the appropriate measures, if any, that should be taken to mitigate the potential conflict of interest. It is also inappropriate for you to discuss the Company's confidential information with relatives that have such conflicting interests. CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES As an Associate of the Company, you have an obligation to put the interests of the Company ahead of your personal interests and to advance the Company's interests when the opportunity to do so arises. If you discover a business opportunity while employed by the company or through the use of corporate property or information because of your position with the Company, you must first present the business opportunity to the Company before pursuing the opportunity in your individual capacity. No Associate may use corporate property, information or his or her position for personal gain, and no Associate may compete with the Company either directly or indirectly. 5
The Company requires that you fully disclose to the Vice President of Human Resources the terms and conditions of each business opportunity that you wish to pursue. The Vice President of Human Resources and the appropriate management personnel will determine whether the Company wishes to pursue the business opportunity. If the Company waives its right to pursue the business opportunity, which must be authorized by an executive officer of the Company with the concurrence of the Vice President of Human Resources, you may pursue the business opportunity on the same terms and conditions offered to the Company and consistent with the other ethical guidelines set forth in this Code including specifically the conflicts of interest provisions. Business opportunities available to directors, executive officers and other principal officers may only be waived by our Board of Directors or the appropriate committee of our Board of Directors and will be promptly disclosed to the public. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION Associates have access to a variety of confidential business information while employed at the Company. Confidential information includes all non-public information that might be of use to competitors, or harmful to the company or its customers, if disclosed, such as client lists. If you have any doubts whether any information or data concerning the Company is confidential, you must refrain from disclosure and check with the Vice President of Human Resources. Associates have a duty to safeguard all confidential information, except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated. An Associate's obligation to protect confidential information continues after an Associate leaves the Company. Unauthorized disclosure of confidential information could cause competitive harm to the Company and could result in legal liability to you and the Company. When discussing or in possession of confidential information, Associates should always be aware of their surroundings. Associates should not discuss Company business in the presence of Associates or others who do not have a right or need to know. Associates should be particularly careful in public places, including restaurants, airplanes, commuter trains and public pay phones. In appropriate circumstances, disclosure of confidential information may be authorized by the Vice President of Human Resources or other appropriate Company personnel. Any outside requests for Company business information should only be handled by authorized persons. Any question or concern regarding whether disclosure of Company information is legally mandated or who is authorized to disclose Company business information should be promptly referred to the Vice President of Human Resources. As a result of the Company's business relationships with customers, tenants and others, Associates may also have access to and be entrusted with confidential information of other companies. In these cases, other companies' confidential information must be afforded the same protection as the Company's confidential information. Violation of these confidentiality obligations may result in discipline up to, and including, dismissal for a first offense. COMPETITION AND FAIR DEALING The Company competes vigorously but fairly. All Associates are obligated to deal fairly with the Company's customers, tenants and competitors. Associates will not take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation or any other unfair-dealing practice. 6
RELATIONSHIPS WITH CUSTOMERS Our business success depends upon our ability to foster lasting customer relationships. Trust is the cornerstone of these relationships. To build trust, the Company is committed to dealing with customers fairly, honestly and with integrity. Specifically, you should keep the following guidelines in mind when dealing with customers: o Information we supply to customers should be current, accurate, and complete to the best of our knowledge. Associates should never deliberately misrepresent information to customers. o Customer entertainment should never exceed reasonable and customary business practice. Associates should never provide entertainment or other benefits that could be viewed as an inducement to or a reward for customer purchase decisions. Please see "Gifts and Entertainment" below for additional guidelines in this area. If you have any questions or doubt about customer entertainment, speak to the Vice President of Human Resources. RELATIONSHIPS WITH TENANTS The Company deals fairly and honestly with its tenants. This means that our relationships with tenants are based on price, quality, service and reputation. Associates dealing with tenants must carefully guard their objectivity. Specifically, no Associate should accept or solicit any personal benefit from a tenant or potential tenant that might compromise, or appear to compromise, his or her objective assessment of the tenant. Associates can give or accept promotional items of nominal value or moderately scaled entertainment within the limits of responsible and customary business practice. Please see "Gifts and Entertainment" below for additional guidelines in this area. RELATIONSHIPS WITH COMPETITORS The Company is committed to free and open competition in the marketplace and throughout all business dealings. Associates must avoid all actions that reasonably could be construed as being anti-competitive, monopolistic or otherwise contrary to laws governing competitive practices in the marketplace, including federal and state antitrust laws. This includes misappropriation and/or misuse of a competitor's confidential information, tampering with a competitor's products or making false statements about the competitor's business and business practices. 7
GIFTS AND ENTERTAINMENT The giving and receiving of gifts is a common business practice. Appropriate business gifts and entertainment are welcome courtesies designed to build relationships and understanding among business partners. However, gifts and entertainment should never compromise, or appear to compromise, your ability to make objective and fair business decisions. In other words, gifts and entertainment may never be in exchange for information, treatment or opportunities that otherwise would not be given. It is your responsibility to use good judgment in this area. As a general rule, you may give or receive gifts or entertainment to or from customers or tenants only if the gift or entertainment could not be viewed as an inducement to or reward for any particular business decision. All gifts and entertainment expenses must be properly accounted for on expense reports. The following specific examples may be helpful: o Meals and Entertainment. You may occasionally accept or give meals, refreshments or other entertainment if: o The items are of reasonable value; o The purpose of the meeting or attendance at the event is business related; and o The expenses would be paid by the Company as a reasonable business expense if not paid for by another party. Entertainment of reasonable value may include food and tickets for sporting and cultural events if they are generally offered to other customers, tenants or vendors. o Advertising and Promotional Materials. You may occasionally accept or give advertising or promotional materials of nominal value. o Personal Gifts. You may accept or give personal gifts of reasonable value that are related to recognized special occasions such as a birthday, graduation, promotion, new job, wedding, retirement or a holiday. A gift is also acceptable if it is based on a family or personal relationship and unrelated to the business involved between the individuals. o Gifts Rewarding Service or Accomplishment. You may accept a gift from a civic, charitable or religious organization specifically related to your service or accomplishment. If you conduct business in other countries, you must be particularly careful that gifts and entertainment are not construed as bribes, kickbacks or other improper payments. See "The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other Laws Governing Our Business Internationally" for a more detailed discussion of our policies regarding giving or receiving gifts related to business transactions in other countries. You should make every effort to refuse or return a gift that is beyond these permissible guidelines. If it would be inappropriate to refuse a gift or you are unable to return a gift, you should promptly report the gift to the Vice President of Human Resources, who may require you to donate the gift to an appropriate community organization. If you have any questions about whether it is permissible to accept a gift or something else of value, contact the Vice President of Human Resources for additional guidance. 8
PROTECTION AND USE OF COMPANY ASSETS All Associates should protect the Company's assets and ensure their efficient use for legitimate business purposes only. Theft, carelessness and waste have a direct impact on the Company's profitability. The use of the funds or assets of the Company, whether for personal gain or not, for any unlawful or improper purpose is strictly prohibited. To ensure the protection and proper use of the Company's assets, each Associate should: o Exercise reasonable care to prevent theft, damage or misuse of Company property. o Promptly report the actual or suspected theft, damage or misuse of Company property to the Vice President of Human Resources. o Use the Company's voicemail, other electronic communication services or written materials for business-related purposes only and in a manner that does not reflect negatively on the Company or its customers. o Safeguard all electronic programs, data, communications and written materials from inadvertent access by others. o Use Company property only for legitimate business purposes, as authorized in connection with your job responsibilities. Associates should be aware that Company property includes all data and communications transmitted or received to or by, or contained in, the Company's electronic or telephonic systems or by written media. Associates and other users of this property should have no expectation of privacy with respect to these communications and data. To the extent permitted by law, the Company has the ability, and reserves the right, to monitor all electronic and telephonic communication. These communications may also be subject to disclosure to law enforcement or government officials. COMPANY RECORDS Accurate and reliable records are crucial to our business. Our records are the basis of our earnings statements, financial reports and other disclosures to the public. In addition, our records are the source of essential data that guides business decision-making and strategic planning. Company records include booking information, payroll, timecards, travel and expense reports, e-mails, accounting and financial data, measurement and performance records, electronic data files and all other records maintained in the ordinary course of our business. 9
All Company records must be complete, accurate and reliable in all material respects. There is never a reason to make false or misleading entries. In addition, undisclosed or unrecorded funds, payments or receipts are strictly prohibited. Ask the Vice President of Human Resources if you have any questions. ACCURACY OF FINANCIAL REPORTS AND OTHER PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS We are a public company and are required to report our financial results and a great deal of financial and other information about our business to the public and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). We are also subject to various securities laws and regulations. It is our policy to promptly disclose accurate and complete information regarding the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Inaccurate, incomplete or untimely reporting will not be tolerated and can severely damage the Company and cause legal liability. Associates should be on guard for, and promptly report, evidence of improper financial reporting. Examples of suspicious activities that should be reported include: o Financial results that seem inconsistent with the performance of underlying business transactions; o Inaccurate Company records, such as overstated expense reports, or erroneous time sheets or invoices; o Transactions that do not seem to have a good business purpose; and o Requests to circumvent ordinary review and approval procedures. The Company's senior financial officers and other Associates working in the Accounting and Finance Departments have a special responsibility to ensure that all of our financial disclosures are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable. Such Associates must understand and strictly comply with generally accepted accounting principles as adopted by the Company and all standards, laws and regulations for accounting and financial reporting of transactions, estimates and forecasts. Indeed, the SEC has adopted rules that prohibit officers or directors, and persons acting under their direction, from making any materially false, misleading, or incomplete statement to an accountant in connection with an audit or any filing with the SEC. If an Associate believes that the Company has engaged in any type of questionable accounting or auditing activity, such Associate should report the allegations to the Vice President of Human Resources or use the Helpline and report the activity anonymously. 10
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS Each Associate has an obligation to comply with the laws of the cities, states and countries in which the Company operates. We will not tolerate any activity that violates any laws, rules or regulations applicable to the Company. This includes, without limitation, laws covering commercial bribery and kickbacks, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, information privacy, insider trading, illegal political contributions, antitrust prohibitions, foreign corrupt practices, offering or receiving gratuities, environmental hazards, employment discrimination or harassment, occupational health and safety, false or misleading financial information or misuse of corporate assets. You are expected to understand and comply with all laws, rules and regulations that apply to your job position. If any doubt exists about whether a course of action is lawful, you should seek advice immediately from the Vice President of Human Resources. The Company has adopted an insider trading policy. Each Associate should be familiar with the provisions of the policy and shall limit trading in the Company's securities as provided in the policy. In addition, all directors and principal officers of the Company should be familiar with the federal and state securities laws related to trading and reporting of trading in the Company's securities, including under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's policy on insider trading can be found in the Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual. PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS AND REGULATION FD PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS GENERALLY The Company places a high value on its credibility and reputation in the community. What is written or said about the Company in the news media and investment community directly impacts our reputation, positively or negatively. It is our policy to provide timely, accurate and complete information in response to public requests (media, analysts, etc.), consistent with our obligations to maintain the confidentiality of competitive and proprietary information and to prevent selective disclosure of market-sensitive financial data. To ensure compliance with this policy, all news media or other public requests for information regarding the Company should be directed to the Company's Investor Relations Department. The Investor Relations Department will work with you and the appropriate personnel to evaluate and coordinate a response to the request. COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION FD In connection with its public communications, the Company is required to comply with a rule under the federal securities laws referred to as Regulation FD (which stands for "fair disclosure"). Regulation FD provides that, when we disclose material, non-public information about the Company to securities market professionals or stockholders (where it is reasonably foreseeable that the stockholders will trade on the information), we must also disclose the information to the public. "Securities market professionals" generally include analysts, institutional investors and other investment advisors. 11
To ensure compliance with Regulation FD, we have designated the following officials as "Primary Spokespersons:" o Chief Executive Officer o Chief Financial Officer o Chief Investment Officer o Chief Operating Officer o Vice President, Investor Relations Only Primary Spokespersons are authorized to disclose information about the Company in response to requests from securities market professionals or stockholders. If you receive a request for information from any securities market professionals or stockholders, promptly contact the Investor Relations Department to coordinate a response to such request. Company Associates who regularly interact with securities market professionals are specifically covered by Regulation FD and have a special responsibility to understand and comply with Regulation FD. Contact the Vice President of Human Resources if you have any questions about the scope or application of Regulation FD. The Company also has a detailed policy on Regulation FD, which may be obtained from the Vice President of Human Resources or the Investor Relations Department. THE FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") prohibits the Company and its Associates and agents from offering or giving money or any other item of value to win or retain business or to influence any act or decision of any governmental official, political party, candidate for political office or official of a public international organization. Stated more concisely, the FCPA prohibits the payment of bribes, kickback or other inducements to foreign officials. This prohibition also extends to payments to a sales representative or agent if there is reason to believe that the payment will be used indirectly for a prohibited payment to foreign officials. Violation of the FCPA is a crime that can result in severe fines and criminal penalties, as well as disciplinary action by the Company, up to and including termination of employment. Certain small facilitation or "grease" payments to foreign officials may be permissible under the FCPA if customary in the country or locality and intended to secure routine governmental action. Governmental action is "routine" if it is ordinarily and commonly performed by a foreign official and does not involve the exercise of discretion. For instance, "routine" functions would include setting up a telephone line or expediting a shipment through customs. To ensure legal compliance, all facilitation payments must receive prior written approval from the Vice President of Human Resources and must be clearly and accurately reported as a business expense. 12
CONCLUSION This Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contains general guidelines for conducting the business of the Company consistent with the highest standards of business ethics. If you have any questions about these guidelines, please contact the Vice President of Human Resources or submit the questions to the Helpline. We expect all of Company Associates, regardless of their level or location, to adhere to these standards. Each Associate is separately responsible for his or her actions. Conduct that violates the law or this Code cannot be justified by claiming that it was ordered by the Vice President of Human Resources or someone in higher management. If you engage in conduct prohibited by the law or this Code, you will be deemed to have acted outside the scope of your employment. Such conduct will subject you to disciplinary action, including possibly termination of employment. Note: This Code and the matters contained herein are neither a contract of employment nor a guarantee of continuing Company policy. We reserve the right to amend, supplement or discontinue this Code and the matters addressed herein, without prior notice, at any time. 13


