FILE:KIM/KIM-8K-20081113172024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[_]
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[_]
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14a-12)
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 13, 2008, Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") announced the following management changes.
Michael J. Flynn is stepping down as the Company's president and chief operating officer, effective November 13, 2008.  Mr. Flynn, age 73, will retire from full-time employment on December 31, 2008 and will continue to be engaged in a strategic advisory capacity.
David B. Henry, the Company's vice chairman and chief investment officer, has been appointed to succeed Mr. Flynn as president, effective November 13, 2008.  Mr. Henry, age 59, will continue to act as the Company's vice chairman and chief investment officer, positions he has held since 2001.
David Lukes has been appointed to succeed Mr. Flynn as the Company's chief operating officer, effective November 13, 2008.  Mr. Lukes, age 38, previously served as the Company's executive vice-president, with responsibility for the financial performance of the U.S. and Puerto Rico portfolios.  
Michael V. Pappagallo, the Company's chief financial officer, has been appointed chief administrative officer, effective November 13, 2008.  Mr. Pappagallo, age 49, will continue to act as the Company's chief financial officer, a position he has held since 1997.
The existing employment agreements for each of Messrs. Flynn, Henry, Lukes and Pappagallo continue to remain in effect and have not been modified in connection with the changes described in this report.
The executive officers of the Company serve in their respective capacities for approximately one-year terms and are subject to re-election by the Board of Directors, generally at the time of the Annual Meeting of the Board of Directors following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
A copy of the Company's news release announcing these management changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
The following exhibit is filed with this report:
99.1 News release dated November 13, 2008
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEW HYDE PARK, NY  November 13, 2008  Kimco Realty Corporation (NYSE: KIM) announced today the following management promotions and changes. David B. Henry has been appointed president of the company.  In this role, Henry will assume a principal leadership role for the execution of the company's overall business strategy.  He also will continue to act as vice chairman and chief investment officer.  Milton Cooper will continue to serve as chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors.  Cooper will also lead an expanded office of the chairman.
David Lukes has been appointed chief operating officer of the company, succeeding Michael J. Flynn.  Lukes will direct the strategy and day-to-day activities of the company's shopping center business. Lukes was most recently Kimco's executive vice-president with responsibility for the financial performance of the U.S. and Puerto Rico portfolios.   
Michael J. Flynn will retire from full-time employment effective December 31, 2008.  Flynn has been president and chief operating officer of Kimco since 1997, vice chairman since 1996 and a member of the board of directors since 1991.  Flynn will continue to be engaged in a strategic advisory capacity, which includes serving on Kimco's investment committee, consulting on the company's business projects in the Florida market and participating in periodic business unit and portfolio reviews.
Michael V. Pappagallo, the company's chief financial officer, has also been appointed chief administrative officer.  In addition to his role as CFO, Pappagallo will oversee corporate planning and administration, which comprises technology, risk management, legal operations and human resource programs.
The company also announced that Messrs. Cooper, Henry, Pappagallo and Lukes will form the office of the chairman. The office will set overall strategic direction for the company, determine investment policy and focus on organizational development.   
Said Milton Cooper,"We have in place today a team of skillful and experienced managers with skin in the game.  As a key member of our team, David Henry has been instrumental in developing a business platform that today includes a robust investment management unit, a growing base of international operations and additional opportunistic enterprises.  With this talented team, we are well positioned to move to the next level of growth and to remain a leader among retail REITs. We are also grateful to Mike Flynn for his contributions to Kimco's growth and success and we are pleased that he will remain engaged in a strategic advisory capacity."  
Added Cooper, "Through all market cycles our paramount goals remain the same: to continue to build a world class real estate company and to deliver long-term value to shareholders."  
The management changes will become effective immediately.
About Kimco
Kimco Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust (REIT), owns and operates the nation's largest portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping centers.  As of September 30, 2008, the company owned interests in 1,945 properties comprising 182 million square feet of leasable space across 45 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. Publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol KIM and included in the S&P 500 Index, the company has specialized in shopping center acquisitions, development and management for 50 years. For further information, visit the company's web site at .
www.kimcorealty.com
1
Safe Harbor Statement
The statements in this release state the company's and management's hopes, intentions, beliefs, expectations or projections of the future and are forward-looking statements. It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, (i) general economic conditions, (ii) the inability of major tenants to continue paying their rent obligations due to bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn in their business, (iii) local real estate conditions, (iv) increases in interest rates, and (v) increases in operating costs and real estate taxes. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company's SEC filings, including but not limited to the company's report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Copies of each filing may be obtained from the company or the Securities & Exchange Commission. The company refers you to the documents filed by the company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the section titled "Risk Factors" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as may be updated or supplemented in the company's Form 10-Q filings, which discuss these and other factors that could adversely affect the company's results.
- # # # -
CONTACT: Barbara M. Pooley, vice president, finance and investor relations, 1-866-831-4297
2


