FILE:KIM/KIM-8K-20080519143417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[_]
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[_]
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14a-12)
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Company is filing as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and incorporating herein by reference, the figures used to calculate the Company's ratio of earnings to fixed charges and ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for the three months ended March 31, 2008.
For purposes of determining the ratio of earnings to total fixed charges, "earnings" consist of income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest, (income) loss related to equity method investees, distributed income of equity method investees, minority interest in pre-tax (income) loss, amortization of interest capitalized and fixed charges.  "Total fixed charges" consist of interest expense (including interest costs capitalized) and other financial charges and an interest factor attributable to rentals.  The interest factor attributable to rentals consists of one-third of rental charges, which we deem to be representative of the interest factor inherent in rents.
For the purposes of determining the ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends, "earnings" consist of income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interest, (income) loss related equity method investees, distributed income of equity method investees, minority interest in pre-tax (income) loss, amortization of interest capitalized and fixed charges.  "Combined fixed charges" consist of interest expense (including interest costs capitalized) and other financial charges, preferred dividends (including tax effect factor) and an interest factor attributable to rentals.  The interest factor attributable to rentals consists of one-third of rental charges, which we deem to be representative of the interest factor inherent in rents.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1


