FILE:KIM/KIM-8K-20100621104529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
[_]
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[_]
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") has announced the following management changes effective June 21, 2010.
Glenn G. Cohen, age 46, has been appointed Executive Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.  Mr. Cohen has served as the Company's Treasurer since 1997 and most recently as Chief Accounting Officer since 2009.
Barbara M. Pooley, age 49, has been appointed Executive Vice-President and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company. Ms. Pooley joined the Company in 2007 and currently serves as Senior Vice-President, Finance and Investor Relations. Before joining the Company, Ms. Pooley held the position of Senior Vice-President, Investor Relations at Colonial Properties Trust.
Mr. Cohen is assuming the role of Chief Financial Officer, and Ms. Pooley is assuming the role of Chief Administrative Officer, from Michael V. Pappagallo, who is no longer occupying those positions and will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Operating Officer.
The existing employment agreements for each of Messrs. Cohen and Pappagallo and for Ms. Pooley continue to remain in effect and have not been modified in connection with the changes described in this report.
A copy of the Company's news release announcing these management changes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       The following exhibit is filed with this report:
99.1     News release dated June 21, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION          
Dated:  June 21, 2010
By:
/s/ Michael V. Pappagallo              
Name:
Michael V. Pappagallo
Title:
Chief Operating Officer

Exhibit 99.1
Kimco Realty Corporation Announces Management Promotions
NEW HYDE PARK, NY, June 21, 2010  Kimco Realty Corporation (NYSE: KIM) announced today the following management promotions effective immediately.
Glenn G. Cohen has been appointed executive vice-president and chief financial officer. Mr. Cohen will be responsible for the company's financial and capital strategy and oversee accounting and financial reporting, tax, treasury and capital markets, as well as corporate financial planning and analysis.
Mr. Cohen joined Kimco in 1995 as director of accounting and taxation, has served as the company's treasurer since 1997 and most recently as chief accounting officer since 2009. Prior to joining Kimco, Mr. Cohen served as chief operating officer and chief financial officer for U.S. Balloon Manufacturing Company, chief financial officer of Emco Sales and Service, LP and six years as a certified public accountant in the audit practice at Coopers & Lybrand (predecessor to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP). Mr. Cohen holds a bachelor of science in accounting from the State University of New York at Albany.
Barbara M. Pooley has been appointed executive vice-president and chief administrative officer of the company. Ms. Pooley will be responsible for the business support functions of Kimco's operations including property planning, analysis and reporting, lease and property administration as well as information technology. She will continue to oversee investor relations, corporate communications and corporate governance for the company.
Ms. Pooley joined Kimco in 2007 and currently serves as senior vice-president, finance and investor relations. Before joining Kimco, Ms. Pooley held the position of senior vice-president, investor relations at Colonial Properties Trust. Other prior experience includes vice-president of human resources at CSX World Terminals and eight years as a certified public accountant in the tax practice at BDO Seidman, LLP. Ms. Pooley began her career in the finance group at Unisys Corporation.  She holds a bachelor of science in finance from the University of Maryland at College Park.
President and Chief Executive Officer David B. Henry said "We congratulate Glenn and Barbara on their promotions. We are fortunate to have such highly talented and experienced team members in place at Kimco.  We have a rich history of cultivating talent which has enabled us to promote from within and ensure a seamless transition of these critical functions."  
The Company does not anticipate any material impact to net income or funds from operations per share for the full-year 2010 as a result of these management changes.  
About Kimco
Kimco Realty Corporation, a real estate investment trust (REIT), owns and operates North America's largest portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping centers.  As of March 31, 2010, the company owned interests in 1,471 retail properties comprising 151 million square feet of leasable space across 45 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico and South America. Publicly traded on the NYSE under the symbol KIM and included in the S&P 500 Index, the company has specialized in shopping center acquisitions, development and management for 50 years. For further information, visit the company's web site at .
www.kimcorealty.com
Safe Harbor Statement
The statements in this release state the company's and management's hopes, intentions, beliefs, expectations or projections of the future and are forward-looking statements. It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations include, but are not limited to, (i) general adverse economic conditions, (ii) the inability of major tenants to continue paying their rent obligations due to bankruptcy, insolvency or general downturn in their business, (iii) local real estate conditions, (iv) the level and volatility of interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, (v) increases in operating costs and real estate taxes,
(vi) financing risks, such as the inability to obtain equity, debt or other sources of financing or refinancing on favorable terms, (vii) the Company's ability to raise capital by selling its assets, (viii) changes in governmental laws and regulations, (ix) the availability of suitable acquisition opportunities, (x) valuation of joint venture investments, (xi) valuation of marketable securities and other investments, (xii) changes in the dividend policy for the Company's common stock, (xiii) the reduction in the Company's income in the event of
. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained from time to time in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to the company's report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the section titled "Risk Factors" therein, as may be updated or supplemented in the company's Form 10-Q filings. Copies of each filing may be obtained from the company or the Securities & Exchange Commission.
multiple lease terminations by tenants or a failure by multiple tenants to occupy their premises in a shopping center, (xiv) impairment charges and (xv) unanticipated changes in the Company's intention or ability to prepay certain debt prior to maturity and/or hold certain securities until maturity
CONTACT: David F. Bujnicki, senior director, investor relations, 1-866-831-4297


