FILE:KIM/KIM-8K-20110617165022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
[_]
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[_]
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[_]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On June 17, 2011, Kimco Realty Corporation (the "Company") filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") a prospectus supplement to the base prospectus contained in its automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3/ASR filed with the SEC on April 24, 2009 (File No. 333-158762). The prospectus supplement relates to 150,000 shares of the Company's common stock that may be offered pursuant to the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan.
This Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to present certain exhibits that shall be incorporated by reference into the registration statement.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.  
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
KIMCO REALTY CORPORATION
Date: June 17, 2011
By:
/s/ Glenn G. Cohen
Name:
Glenn G. Cohen
Title:
Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer

Exhibit 5.1
Kimco Realty Corporation
3333 New Hyde Park Road
New Hyde Park, New York 11042
Re:
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-158762)
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have served as Maryland counsel to Kimco Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Company"), in connection with certain matters of Maryland law arising out of the registration of 150,000shares (the "Shares") of common stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Company, covered by the above-referenced Registration Statement, and all amendments thereto (the "Registration Statement"), filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act").  The Shares may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Company's Dividend Reinvestment and Direct Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan").  
In connection with our representation of the Company, and as a basis for the opinion hereinafter set forth, we have examined originals, or copies certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of the following documents (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Documents"):
1.
The Registration Statement;
2.
The Prospectus Supplement, dated as of the date hereof, in the form in which it was transmitted to the Commission under the 1933 Act;
3.
The charter of the Company (the "Charter"), certified by the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland (the "SDAT");
4.
The Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, certified as of the date hereof by an officer of the Company;
5.
The Plan;
6.
A certificate of the SDAT as to the good standing of the Company, dated as of a recent date;
7.
Resolutions (the "Resolutions") adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company, relating to the Plan and the issuance of the Shares, certified as of the date hereof by an officer of the Company;
8.
A certificate executed by an officer of the Company, dated as of the date hereof; and
9.
Such other documents and matters as we have deemed necessary or appropriate to express the opinion set forth below, subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications stated herein.
In expressing the opinion set forth below, we have assumed the following:
1.
Each individual executing any of the Documents, whether on behalf of such individual or another person, is legally competent to do so.
2.
Each individual executing any of the Documents on behalf of a party (other than the Company) is duly authorized to do so.
Kimco Realty Corporation
June 17, 2011
Page 2
3.
Each of the parties (other than the Company) executing any of the Documents has duly and validly executed and delivered each of the Documents to which such party is a signatory, and such party's obligations set forth therein are legal, valid and binding and are enforceable in accordance with all stated terms.
4.
All Documents submitted to us as originals are authentic.  The form and content of all Documents submitted to us as unexecuted drafts do not differ in any respect relevant to this opinion from the form and content of such Documents as executed and delivered. All Documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies conform to the original documents.  All signatures on all Documents are genuine.  All public records reviewed or relied upon by us or on our behalf are true and complete.  All representations, warranties, statements and information contained in the Documents are true and complete.  There has been no oral or written modification of or amendment to any of the Documents, and there has been no waiver of any provision of any of the Documents, by action or omission of the parties or otherwise.
5.
The Shares will not be issued or transferred in violation of any restriction or limitation contained in Article IV of the Charter.
6.
Upon the issuance of any of the Shares, the total number of shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding will not exceed the total number of shares of Common Stock that the Company is then authorized to issue under the Charter.
Based upon the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications stated herein, it is our opinion that:
1.
The Company is a corporation duly incorporated and validly existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Maryland and is in good standing with the SDAT.
2.
The issuance of the Shares has been duly authorized and, when and if issued and delivered in accordance with the Resolutions and the Plan, the Shares will be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
The foregoing opinion is limited to the laws of the State of Maryland and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law.  We express no opinion as to the applicability or effect of federal or state securities laws, including the securities laws of the State of Maryland, or as to federal or state laws regarding fraudulent transfers.  To the extent that any matter as to which our opinion is expressed herein would be governed by the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Maryland, we do not express any opinion on such matter.  The opinion expressed herein is subject to the effect of any judicial decision which may permit the introduction of parol evidence to modify the terms or the interpretation of agreements.
The opinion expressed herein is limited to the matters specifically set forth herein and no other opinion shall be inferred beyond the matters expressly stated.  We assume no obligation to supplement this opinion if any applicable law changes after the date hereof or if we become aware of any fact that might change the opinion expressed herein after the date hereof.
This opinion is being furnished to you for submission to the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K relating to the Plan (the "Current Report").  We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Current Report and to the use of the name of our firm therein. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the 1933 Act.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Venable LLP
41868-270281


