FILE:KIM/KIM-8K-20120229171846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 29, 2012, Kimco Realty Corporation (the Company) announced that, effective February 23, 2012, Paul Westbrook, age 50 and David Bujnicki, age 41 have been appointed by the board of directors to serve as corporate vice president and chief accounting officer and corporate vice president and vice president of investor relations and corporate communications, respectively. Mr. Westbrook has been with the Company for nine years and most recently served as vice president of financial reporting. Mr. Bujnicki has been with the Company for eight years and most recently served as senior director of investor relations. The Companys press release describing these events is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 Kimco Realty Corp., North Americas largest owner and operator of neighborhood and community shopping centers, today announced that the companys board of directors has named Paul Westbrook and David Bujnicki corporate vice presidents, effective Feb. 23.
NEW HYDE PARK, N.Y., Feb. 29, 2012
 
Paul Westbrook was promoted to corporate vice president and chief accounting officer. He has been with Kimco for nine years, most recently as vice president of financial reporting. In his new role, Mr. Westbrook reports to CFO Glenn Cohen and is responsible for the companys accounting policies and procedures, financial reporting activities and interface with internal and external audit groups.
 
David Bujnicki, formerly senior director of investor relations, was promoted to corporate vice president and vice president of investor relations and corporate communications, reporting to CEO David Henry. In this expanded role, Mr. Bujnicki retains oversight of investor relations and assumes leadership of marketing and the newly formalized corporate communications function. He has been with Kimco for eight years.
 
 We congratulate Paul and David on their well-deserved promotions to corporate officers, said Kimco CEO David Henry. The board has recognized their exceptional leadership skills in managing and communicating Kimcos financials and other strategic activities. We welcome them as important additions to our senior management team.
 
ABOUT KIMCO
 
Kimco Realty Corp. (NYSE: KIM) is a real estate investment trust (REIT) headquartered in New Hyde Park, N.Y., that owns and operates the largest portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping centers in North America. As of Dec. 31, 2011, the company owned interests in 946 shopping centers comprising 138 million square feet of leasable space across 44 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico and South America. Publicly traded on the NYSE since 1991, and included in the S&P 500 Index, the company has specialized in shopping center acquisitions, development and management for more than 50 years. For further information, please visit the companys blog at or follow Kimco on Twitter at
www.kimcorealty.com
,
blog.kimcorealty.com
,
www.twitter.com/kimcorealty
.
 
 
CONTACT:
 
David F. Bujnicki
Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications
1-866-831-4297
dbujnicki@kimcorealty.com


