FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20020814101540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On August 13, 2002, William L. Davis, principal executive officer of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company, and Gregory A. Stoklosa, principal financial officer of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company, each filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a statement under oath regarding facts and circumstances relating to the accuracy of the Company's financial statements and each of their consultations with the Company's audit committee, as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission's "Order Requiring the Filing of Sworn Statements Pursuant to Section 21(a)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934".
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
R. R. D & S C
ONNELLEY
ONS
OMPANY
 
 
Date: August 14, 2002
//    M M. F
S
ONICA
OHRMAN        
By:              
                                                                                             
      Monica M. Fohrman
Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
I, William L. Davis, state and attest that:
 
(1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
 
(2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee.
 
(3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
I, Gregory A. Stoklosa, state and attest that:
 
(1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
 
(2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee.
 
(3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 


