FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20030806093205.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On July 28, 2003, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company announced that its chairman, president and chief executive officer, William L. Davis, plans to retire, and that a search is underway for his successor.
 
On July 24, 2003, the Board of Directors of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company declared a cash dividend in the amount of $.26 per share, payable on August 30, 2003 to all shareholders of record on August 8, 2003.
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12.    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
 
On August 6, 2003, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company issued a press release reporting the Company's results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003.
 
The information shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except as otherwise expressly stated in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
R. R. D & S C
ONNELLEY
ONS
OMPANY
 
 
Date: August 6, 2003
//    M M. F
S
ONICA
OHRMAN        
By:              
                                                                                             
      Monica M. Fohrman
Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHICAGO, Aug. 6, 2003RR Donnelley (NYSE: DNY) today announced second quarter 2003 earnings per diluted share of 17 cents, compared to 21 cents in the year ago period. Revenues for the second quarter were $1.1 billion, flat compared to the prior year. Net income was $19 million, compared to $24 million in the second quarter of 2002.
 
Included in the above results for the second quarter of 2003 are restructuring and impairment charges of $5 million ($3 million after-tax, or 3 cents per diluted share). In the year-earlier period, results included restructuring and impairment charges of $16 million ($10 million after-tax, or 8 cents per diluted share).
 
"We are still operating in challenging markets," said William L. Davis, RR Donnelley's chairman, president and chief executive officer. "But we're lean operationally and we're winning market share, both of which bode well for the future."
 
Growth in the company's logistics and international businesses offset the continued year-over-year revenue decline in its print and financial services businesses. In its domestic print business, the company experienced stable volumes and lower prices, as expected, relative to the prior year. However, weaker-than-expected global capital markets and mutual fund activity in the first half of 2003 caused revenue and earnings to fall short of the company's expectations in its financial services business.
 
The company reiterated its previously issued full-year earnings guidance of $1.25 to $1.40 per diluted share. This range includes six cents per diluted share for expected restructuring activity, four cents of which have been recognized through June 30, 2003.
 
However, the company cautioned that earnings will likely be at the lower end of the range, mainly due to weaker-than expected activity in financial services as well as continued softness in direct mail. The company's guidance continues to incorporate the weak print demand and pricing environment, largely offset by its continued cost reduction and productivity efforts. In addition, the company's guidance assumes no improvement in global capital markets or mutual fund activity in the second half of 2003, as compared to the prior
 
RR Donnelley Reports 2nd Quarter 2003 Results
August 6, 2003
Page 2 of 6
 
year. Capital spending is expected to be below $250 million, unchanged from prior guidance.
 
In July, the company announced its 33rd consecutive annual increase in its quarterly dividend. "We remain committed to delivering tangible value to our shareholders through our dividend," said Gregory A. Stoklosa, RR Donnelley's executive vice president and chief financial officer.
 
Recently the company announced Mr. Davis' retirement plans. The company's board of directors is conducting a search for his successor, and Mr. Davis will continue to lead the company until that person is named. "I am very optimistic about RR Donnelley's future," said Mr. Davis. "Through the hard work of our employees over the past six years, we now have the capabilities and culture necessary to drive long-term success with our customers and shareholders."
 
RR Donnelley will hold its quarterly investor conference call at 10 a.m., central time, on Wednesday, Aug., 6, 2003. For a link to the call, log on to www.rrdonnelley.com. Check in approximately 10 minutes in advance of the start time to set up to receive the webcast. The call also will be archived on the site for seven days.
 
RR Donnelley (www.rrdonnelley.com) prepares, produces and delivers integrated communications across multiple channels for content owners such as publishers, merchandisers, and telecommunications companies as well as capital markets and diversified financial services companies. As a single source supplying services up and down the communications value chain, the company excels in digital photography, content management, printing, online services, and print and package logistics. With these integrated services, RR Donnelley provides effective solutions for its customers' targeted communications and delivery needs. Headquartered in Chicago, Ill., RR Donnelley serves a global customer market and has 30,000 employees in more than 200 locations in North America, South America, Europe and the Asia/Pacific Basin.
 
Certain statements, including discussions of the company's expectations for 2003 and beyond, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results to differ materially from the future results expressed or implied by these statements. Refer to Part I, Item I of the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, for a description of such factors.
 
RR Donnelley Reports 2nd Quarter 2003 Results
August 6, 2003
Page 3 of 6
 
 
RR Donnelley Reports 2nd Quarter 2003 Results
August 6, 2003
Page 4 of 6
 
 
 
RR Donnelley Reports 2nd Quarter 2003 Results
August 6, 2003
Page 5 of 6
 
 
Industry Segment Data
 
 
 
Consolidated Summary of Expense TrendsSecond Quarter
 
 
 
Consolidated Summary of Expense TrendsYear-to-Date
 
RR Donnelley Reports 2nd Quarter 2003 Results
August 6, 2003
Page 6 of 6
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
CHICAGO, July 28, 2003William L. Davis, chairman, president and chief executive officer of RR Donnelley [NYSE: DNY], today announced his plans to retire. Davis will remain with the company until his replacement is named. The Board of Directors is conducting a search for a successor.
 
"Heading up RR Donnelley during a time of great industry change has been a tremendous experience," said Davis. "The hard and sometimes gut-wrenching work of our employees has set this company on a solid course for long-term success with customers.
 
"When I joined RR Donnelley in 1997, my personal goal was to lead for a period of five to seven years and retire. While I will miss being part of the team, I'm eager to begin this new stage of my life."
 
Board member and former vice chairman James R. Donnelley commended Davis' accomplishments in making RR Donnelley a modern manufacturing operation. "Bill accomplished what the Board asked him to do," said Donnelley. "Our strategy is sound and our future is bright."
 
Under Davis' leadership, RR Donnelley embarked on a major transformation from a commercial printer to an integrated communications solutions provider. A highly recognized brand, the company has ranked first in its category among Most Admired for three consecutive years. Davis brought continuous improvement, marketing and other capabilities into the company, enabling solutions that help customers sell more, save more and build their brands.
Fortune's
 
The company's financial outlook remains positive. Earlier this week, the company announced its 33rd consecutive annual increase in its quarterly dividend. Earnings for 2003 remain on track, in a range of $1.25 to $1.40 per diluted share. The company noted that it will likely come in at the lower end of that range, due to continued softness in the markets it serves. The company will go into further detail on its 2003 outlook on August 6 when it reports its second quarter 2003 results.
 
RR D CEO W L. D A R
ONNELLEY
ILLIAM
AVIS
NNOUNCES
ETIREMENT
Page 2
 
RR Donnelley () prepares, produces and delivers integrated communications across multiple channels for content owners such as publishers, merchandisers, and telecommunications companies as well as capital markets and diversified financial services companies. As a single source supplying services up and down the communications value chain, the company excels in digital photography, content management, printing, online services, and print and package logistics. With these integrated services, RR Donnelley provides effective solutions for its customers' targeted communications and delivery needs. Headquartered in Chicago, Ill., RR Donnelley serves a global customer market and has 30,000 employees in more than 200 locations in North America, South America, Europe and the Asia/Pacific Basin.
www.rrdonnelley.com
 
Certain statements, including discussions of the company's expectations for 2003 and beyond, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results to differ materially from the future results expressed or implied by these statements. Refer to Part I, Item I of the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, for a description of such factors.
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
CHICAGO, July 24, 2003The Board of Directors of RR Donnelley [NYSE: DNY] today authorized a four percent increase in its quarterly dividend to 26 cents from 25 cents per common share. The higher dividend is payable Aug. 30, 2003 to shareowners of record as of the close of business on Aug. 8, 2003.
 
"RR Donnelley's ability to generate substantial free cash flow, even through this continuing difficult environment, enables us to increase our quarterly dividend for the 33
rd
consecutive year," said Gregory A. Stoklosa, RR Donnelley's executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We remain committed to delivering tangible value to our shareholders through our dividend."
 
RR Donnelley (www.rrdonnelley.com) prepares, produces and delivers integrated communications across multiple channels for content owners such as publishers, merchandisers, and telecommunications companies as well as capital markets and diversified financial services companies. As a single source supplying services up and down the communications value chain, the company excels in digital photography, content management, printing, online services, and print and package logistics. With these integrated services, RR Donnelley provides effective solutions for its customers' targeted communications and delivery needs. Headquartered in Chicago, Ill., RR Donnelley serves a global customer market and has 30,000 employees in more than 200 locations in North America, South America, Europe and the Asia/Pacific Basin.
 
Certain statements, including discussions of the company's expectations for 2003 and beyond, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause actual results to differ materially from the future results expressed or implied by these statements. Refer to Part I, Item I of the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, for a description of such factors.
 


