FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20040506193141.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12.    
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
.
 
On May 6, 2004, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company issued a press release reporting the Company's results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2004.
 
The information shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except as otherwise expressly stated in such a filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
R. R. D & S C
ONNELLEY
ONS
OMPANY
 
Date: May 6, 2004
//    S S. B
S
UZANNE
ETTMAN        
By:              
                                                                                             
      Suzanne S. Bettman
Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Assistant Secretary
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Contact: Julie Gottlieb, Vice President, Investor Relations Tel: 312-326-8004 E-mail: julie.gottlieb@rrd.com
 
 
First Quarter 2004 Highlights
 
 
 
 
(NYSE:RRD) today reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2004. First quarter net sales totaled $1.45 billion, with a GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) net loss of $58.8 million, or ($0.39) per share.
CHICAGO  May 6, 2004  R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
 
The company's combination with Moore Wallace Incorporated, a leading single-source provider of print management and outsourced communications, was completed on February 27, 2004. Consequently, the results for the first quarter of 2004 include the operations of Moore Wallace for 34 days.
 
The company believes that certain non-GAAP measures, when presented in conjunction with comparable GAAP measures, are useful because that information is an appropriate measure for evaluating the company's operating performance. Internally, the company uses this non-GAAP information as an indicator of business performance, and evaluates management's effectiveness with specific reference to this indicator. These measures should be considered in addition to, not a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Non-GAAP net earnings for the first quarter totaled $17.6 million, or $0.11 per diluted share. Non-GAAP net earnings exclude acquisition-related charges, restructuring and impairment charges, gain on the disposal of an investment, and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. A reconciliation of GAAP net earnings to non-GAAP net earnings for these adjustments is presented in the attached tables. In addition, the company used an effective tax rate of 38.3% in calculating non-GAAP net earnings.
 
Mark A. Angelson, RR Donnelley's Chief Executive Officer, said, "The new RR Donnelley is off to a promising start. I am encouraged by the first quarter results and the progress we've made to date in integrating the two companies. We now have in place a management team that reflects the best in leadership and is focused on proactive relationships with customers, and fiscal and operational discipline. We are moving quickly to evaluate all of our businesses and have set in motion our plan for portfolio optimization through financial controls and revenue growth. We have a considerable amount of work to do, but we see tremendous opportunities.
 
"We have already begun to reap the benefits of our plan to enhance profitability through the elimination of duplicative infrastructure, procurement savings and asset rationalization. As a result, we remain confident in our previously disclosed expectation that the combination will be accretive to earnings in the first full year of operations before restructuring, acquisition- and integration-related charges. We now believe we will generate annualized cost savings of at least $100 million within the next 12 months."
 
 
RR Donnelley Report First Quarter 2004 Results
Page 2 of 7
 
Mr. Angelson added, "We believe recent customer wins confirm the rationale behind the combination and signal confidence and support for the new RR Donnelley. Furthermore, these successes validate our ability not only to benefit from substantial cost synergies but also to leverage blue chip client relationships and a comprehensive portfolio of market-leading print-related products and services into a viable cross-selling platform to accelerate growth. We are particularly pleased with our new contract with IAC/InterActiveCorp. We believe it is the paradigm for future mutually successful relationships between us and our largest customers."
 
Business Overview
 
The company's net sales were up 35% overall due primarily to the combination with Moore Wallace. In addition, the company experienced strong growth in the Financial segment, the directories business within the Print segment, and certain international markets.
 
Net sales for the segment increased 1.5%, driven by strength in the directories and premedia businesses. These increases were partially offset by weak net sales in the book business, which was impacted by continued softness in market demand for education and religious categories. The magazines, catalogs and retail business experienced level net sales, a result of higher volume with existing customers offset by lower pricing.
Print
 
Net sales for thesegment increased 4% year over year due to continued organic growth in the print logistics and expedited services businesses and the comparative benefit of a March 2003 acquisition.
Logistics
 
Thesegment delivered a very strong quarter with sales up 25% year over year due to increased activity in the global capital markets, especially improved domestic market conditions, increased compliance work, and several large transactions in Asia.
Financial
 
The segment, which consists of the direct mail and international businesses (excluding legacy Moore Wallace direct mail and international operations), grew 18% year over year. The increase was driven by higher volume in the international business throughout Europe, Asia and Latin America as well as favorable European exchange rates. The benefit was partially offset by lower volume in the direct mail business.
Other
 
The combination of RR Donnelley and Moore Wallace was completed on February 27, 2004. Accordingly, the results of operations of the Forms & Labels, Commercial and Outsourcing segments are included in the company's results of operations only for the 34-day period ended March 31, 2004. Although the results of the company reflect only that 34-day period, management believes that the following discussion of trends affecting those three segments for the full three months ended March 31, 2004, compared to the prior year period, is relevant.
 
Although customer retention remained stable, the segment continued to be challenged by industry factors including volume declines, due in part to electronic substitution for multi-part forms and aggressive pricing competition.
Forms & Labels
 
The segment benefited from Moore Wallace's December 2003 acquisition of Payment Processing Solutions and volume increases with a significant new customer.
Outsourcing
 
The segment significantly benefited from Moore Corporation's acquisition of Wallace Computer Services in May 2003. In addition, the segment benefited from increased demand in its domestic direct mail and commercial print operations, heightened economic activity in key markets served, particularly the advertising, financial and health care sectors, and continued success in cross-selling activities; however, lower volumes in the technical publications operations continue to be a challenge.
Commercial
 
 
RR Donnelley Report First Quarter 2004 Results
Page 3 of 7
 
Other Events
 
In March 2004, the company issued $400.0 million of 3.75% senior unsecured notes due 2009 and $600.0 million of 4.95% senior unsecured notes due 2014. The proceeds from the issuance of these notes were used to repay Moore Wallace debt assumed in the combination, including $497.5 million under the senior secured credit facility and $403.0 million of 7.875% senior unsecured notes due 2011.
 
Outlook
 
For the full year 2004, RR Donnelley is targeting non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of approximately $1.50. Guidance for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 will be provided later in the quarter. The company has no plans to change its quarterly dividend rate of $0.26 per share in 2004.
 
Non-GAAP net earnings exclude certain items that the company does not expect to occur in the ordinary course of business, or are unrelated to the ongoing operations of the business. These items include acquisition-related charges and restructuring and restructuring-related charges that are not currently determinable. For that reason, the company is unable to provide GAAP earnings estimates at this time.
 
Conference Call
 
RR Donnelley will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter results on Friday, May 7, 2004, at 10:00 am Eastern Time (9:00 am Central Time). The company will provide a live webcast of the earnings conference call, which can be accessed via the Internet at ("Investor Relations"). For those unable to participate on the live call, a replay will be archived on the company's web site for 30 days after the call.
www.rrdonnelley.com
 
About RR Donnelley
 
RR Donnelley (NYSE:RRD) is the world's premier full-service global print provider and the largest printing company in North America, serving customers in the publishing, healthcare, advertising, retail, technology, financial services, and many other industries. Founded 140 years ago, the company provides solutions in commercial printing, forms and labels, direct mail, financial printing, print fulfillment, business communication outsourcing, logistics, online services, digital photography, and content and database management. The largest companies in the world and others rely on RR Donnelley's scale, scope and insight through a comprehensive range of online tools, variable printing services, and market-specific solutions. For more information, visit the company's web site at www.rrdonnelley.com.
 
Use of Forward-Looking Statements
 
Except for historical information, this news release may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and any such forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following cautionary statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release and are based on current expectations and involve a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. Readers are strongly encouraged to read the full cautionary statements described in RR Donnelley's and Moore Wallace's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Canadian securities regulatory authorities, as applicable, including the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. RR Donnelley disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
RR Donnelley Reports First Quarter 2004 Results
Page 4 of 7
 
Factors relating to the integration of the businesses that could cause material differences in the expected results of the combined company include, without limitation, the following: the development and execution of comprehensive plans for asset rationalization, the ability to eliminate duplicative overhead without excessive cost or adversely affecting the business, the potential loss of customers and employees as a result of the transaction, the ability to achieve procurement savings by leveraging total spending across the organization, the success of the organization in leveraging its comprehensive product offering to the combined customer base as well as the ability of the organization to complete the integration of the combined companies without losing focus on the business. In addition, the ability of the combined company to achieve the expected revenues, accretion and synergy savings will also be affected by the effects of competition (in particular the response to the transaction in the marketplace), the effects of paper and other raw materials and fuel price fluctuations and shortages of supply, the rate of migration from paper-based forms to digital formats, the impact of currency fluctuations in the countries in which RR Donnelley operates, general economic and other factors beyond the company's control, and other risks and uncertainties described in RR Donnelley's and Moore Wallace's periodic filings with United States and Canadian securities regulatory authorities, as applicable.
 
 
 
RR Donnelley Reports First Quarter 2004 Results
Page 5 of 7
 
 
 
NOTE:
 
Non-GAAP results are not considered to be in accordance with GAAP and are not intended to be an indicator of future operating performance and may not be comparable to pro forma results of other entities.
 
 
RR Donnelley Report First Quarter 2004 Results
Page 6 of 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RR Donnelley Report First Quarter 2004 Results
Page 7 of 7
 
 
 
 
 


