FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20050525171700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 23, 2005, R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company (the "Company") issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.95% Notes due 2010 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.50% Notes due 2015 (collectively, the "Notes") pursuant to an indenture (the "Indenture"), between the Company and LaSalle Bank National Association, as trustee. The Notes were sold in a private placement (i) to "qualified institutional buyers" in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and (ii) outside the United States to persons who are not "U.S. persons" (as defined in Ruled 902 of Regulation S under the Securities Act) in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. A copy of the Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference. For a description of the material terms of the Indenture and the Notes, see the information set forth below under Item 2.03, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
 
The 4.95% Notes due 2010 bear interest at a rate of 4.95% per annum and mature on May 15, 2010. The 5.50% Notes due 2015 bear interest at a rate of 5.50% per annum and mature on May 15, 2015. Interest on the Notes will be payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 2005, to holders of record of such Notes registered at the close of business on the May 1 or November 1, respectively, preceding such interest payment date.
 
The Indenture contains customary covenants that will limit the Company's ability and, in certain instances, the ability of certain of the Company's subsidiaries to (i) incur secured debt; (ii) enter into sale and lease-back transactions; and (iii) consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of their assets. These covenants are subject to important exceptions that are set forth in the Indenture.
 
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Notes in whole at any time or in part from time to time on not less than 30 and not more than 60 days' prior written notice mailed to the holders of the Notes to be redeemed. The Notes will be redeemable at a price equal to the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption and a "make-whole" premium calculated under the Indenture.
 
In the event that, for any reason, (i) the Company's proposed acquisition of The Astron Group Limited is not completed on or prior to September 30, 2005 or (ii) the agreement to purchase The Astron Group Limited is terminated on or prior to September 30, 2005, the Company will redeem all the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes together with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption on the earlier to occur of (a) October 31, 2005 and (b) the 30th day following the termination of the purchase agreement.
 
The Indenture provides for customary events of default, including nonpayment, failure to comply with the other agreements in the Indenture for a period of 90 days, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency and reorganization.
 
Under the terms of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated May 23, 2005, the Company has agreed to register notes having substantially identical terms as the Notes with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of an offer to exchange freely tradable exchange notes for the Notes.
 
The description set forth above is qualified in its entirety by the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement filed herewith as exhibits.
 
A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means Not Applicable
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of May 23, 2005, among R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company, a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the "") and LaSalle Bank National Association, a national banking association, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
 
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes.
 
 
 
 
"" means the Initial 2010 Notes and the Additional 2010 Notes.
2010 Notes
 
"" means the Initial 2015 Notes and the Additional 2015 Notes.
2015 Notes
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
 
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
 
"" means any Registrar, Paying Agent, or agent for service or notices and demands.
Agent
 
"" means amend, modify, supplement, restate or amend and restate, including successively; and "" and "" have correlative meanings.
amend
amending
amended
 
"" in respect of a Sale and Lease-Back Transaction means, as of any particular time, the present value (discounted at the rate of interest implicit in the terms of the lease involved in such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction, as determined in good faith by the Company) of the obligation of the lessee thereunder for rental payments (excluding, however, any amounts required to be paid by such lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges or any amounts required to be paid by such lessee thereunder contingent upon the amount of sales, maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges) during the remaining term of such lease (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended).
Attributable Debt
 
"" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar U.S. Federal or state law or law of any other jurisdiction relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization or relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
"" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.
Board of Directors
 
"" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banking institutions in New York City or Chicago, Illinois are authorized or required by law to close.
Business Day
 
"" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" means the party named as such in the first paragraph of this Indenture, until a successor replaces such party pursuant to Article Five and thereafter means the successor.
Company
 
"" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Order
 
"" means, as of any particular time, the total amount of assets (less applicable reserves) after deducting therefrom (a) all current liabilities (excluding any thereof which are by their terms extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor thereon to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount thereof is being computed and excluding current maturities of long-term indebtedness), and (b) all goodwill, trade names, trademarks, patents, unamortized debt discount and expense and other like intangible assets, all as shown in the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and subsidiaries contained in the Company's then most recent annual report to stockholders, except that assets shall include an amount equal to the Attributable Debt in respect of any Sale and Lease-Back Transaction not capitalized on such balance sheet.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time this Indenture shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at LaSalle Bank National Association, 135 South LaSalle Street, Suite 1960, Chicago, Illinois 60603, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
 
"" includes corporations, associations, companies (including any limited liability company), business trusts and limited partnerships.
corporation
 
"" means any receiver, interim receiver, receiver and manager, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
 
"" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means, with respect to the Notes issued in the form of one or more Global Notes, The Depository Trust Company or another Person designated as Depository by the Company, which Person must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act.
Depository
 
"" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means with respect to the Initial Notes, notes issued in exchange for the Initial Notes pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement or, with respect to any Additional Notes, notes issued in exchange for such Additional Notes pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement among the Company and the initial purchasers of such Additional Notes.
Exchange Notes
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States as in effect from time to time.
GAAP
 
"" means any security issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by the United States, or by a person controlled or supervised by and acting as an instrumentality of the government of the United States pursuant to authority granted by the Congress of the United States or any certificate of deposit for any of the foregoing.
Government Obligations
 
"" or "" means the Person in whose name a Note is registered on the Note register.
Holder
noteholder
 
"" means this Indenture as amended, restated or supplemented from time to time.
Indenture
 
"" means the $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 4.95% Notes due 2010 of the Company.
Initial 2010 Notes
 
"" means the $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the 5.50% Notes due 2015 of the Company.
Initial 2015 Notes
 
"" means the Initial 2010 Notes and the Initial 2015 Notes.
Initial Notes
 
"" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., ABN AMRO Incorporated, ING Financial
Initial Purchasers
 
Markets LLC, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., Mitsubishi Securities International plc, Piper Jaffray & Co. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC.
 
"" means, with respect to the Notes, interest and Additional Interest.
interest
 
"" means May 15 and November 15 of each year.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means the date on which the Notes are initially issued (exclusive of any Additional Notes).
Issue Date
 
"" when used with respect to any Note, means the date on which the principal amount of such Note becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided.
Maturity Date
 
"" means a Person who is not a U.S. person, as defined in Regulation S.
Non-U.S. Person
 
"" means the 4.95% Notes Due 2010 (including, without limitation, any Additional 2010 Notes), the 5.50% Notes Due 2015 (including, without limitation, any Additional 2015 Notes), and the Exchange Notes issued by the Company pursuant to this Indenture.
Notes
 
"" means the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer or any Vice President, the Treasurer or the Secretary of the specified Person.
Officer
 
"" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel for the Company, and who shall be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means any individual, corporation, company (including any limited liability company), association, partnership, joint venture, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
 
"" means certificated 2010 Notes or 2015 Notes in registered form in substantially the form set forth in and , as the case may be.
Physical Notes
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
 
"", when used with respect to the Notes, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Notes are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 4.02.
Place of Payment
 
"" means any manufacturing plant or manufacturing facility located within the United States of America, having a gross book value in excess of 1% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets at the time of determination thereof and owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, in each case other than (1) any such plant or facility which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company, is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (2) any portion of such plant or facility similarly found not to be of material importance to the use or operation thereof.
Principal Property
 
"" means the legend initially set forth on the Rule 144A Notes and Other Notes that are Restricted Notes in the form set forth in .
Private Placement Legend
Exhibit B
 
"" or "" shall have the meaning specified in Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Qualified Institutional Buyer
QIB
 
"" when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed pursuant to paragraph 5 of the Notes means the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the terms of the Notes.
Redemption Date
 
"", when used with respect to any Note to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
 
"" means the registration rights agreement, dated the Issue Date, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any Additional Notes, one or more registration rights agreements between the Company and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Company to the purchasers of Additional Notes to register such Additional Notes under the Securities Act.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
 
"" shall mean, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer assigned by the Trustee to administer corporate trust matters and any other officer of the Trustee to administer corporate trust matters and to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer
 
"" has the same meaning as "Restricted Security" set forth in Rule 144(a)(3) promulgated under the Securities Act; that the Trustee shall be entitled to request and conclusively rely upon an Opinion of Counsel with respect to whether any Note is a Restricted Note.
Restricted Note
provided
 
"" means any Subsidiary (a) substantially all of the property of which is located, or substantially all of the business of which is carried on, within the United States of America (other than its territories or possessions and other than Puerto Rico) and (b) which owns a Principal Property; , , that any Subsidiary which is principally engaged in financing operations outside the United States of America or which is principally engaged in leasing or financing installment receivables shall not be deemed a Restricted Subsidiary for purposes of this Indenture.
Restricted Subsidiary
provided
however
 
"" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144
 
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
 
"" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" means (a) with respect to any debt security, the date specified in such security as the fixed date on which the payment of principal of such security is due and payable, including pursuant to any mandatory redemption provision (but excluding any provision providing for the repurchase of such security at the option of the holder thereof upon the happening of any contingency beyond the control of the Company unless such contingency has occurred) and (b) with respect to any scheduled installment of principal of or interest on any debt security, the date specified in such debt security as the fixed date on which such installment is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
 
"" means a corporation more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock which ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
Subsidiary
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb) as in effect on the date of this Indenture (except as provided in Section 8.03).
TIA
 
"" means the party named as such in this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to this Indenture and thereafter means the successor.
Trustee
 
 
The definitions of the following terms may be found in the sections indicated as follows:
 
 
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the portion of such provision required to be incorporated herein in order for this Indenture to be qualified under the TIA is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"indenture securities" means the Notes.
 
"indenture securityholder" means a Holder.
 
"indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
 
"obligor on this indenture securities" means the Company or any other obligor on the Notes.
 
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined in the TIA by reference to another statute or defined by Commission rule have the meanings therein assigned to them.
 
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(i) a term has the meaning assigned to it herein, whether defined expressly or by reference;
 
(ii) "or" is not exclusive;
 
(iii) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
 
(iv) words used herein implying any gender shall apply to both genders;
 
(v) "herein," "hereof" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subsection;
 
(vi) unless otherwise specified herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP;
 
(vii) "$," "U.S. Dollars" and "United States Dollars" each refer to United States dollars, or such other money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; and
 
(viii) whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, principal, interest or any other amount payable under or with respect to any Note, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Interest to the extent that, in such context, Additional Interest is, was or would be payable in respect thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
The Trustee shall initially authenticate Notes for original issue on the Issue Date in an aggregate principal amount of (i) $500,000,000 of the 2010 Notes and (ii) $500,000,000 of the 2015 Notes upon a written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate of the Company (other than as provided in Section 2.08). The Trustee shall authenticate additional 2010 Notes ("") and additional 2015 Notes ("" and, together with the Additional 2010 Notes, the "") thereafter in unlimited aggregate principal amount (so long as permitted by the terms of this Indenture) for original issue upon a written order of the Company in the form of an Officers' Certificate in aggregate principal amount as specified in such order (other than as provided in Section 2.08). Each such written order shall specify the amount of Notes to be authenticated and the date on which the Notes are to be authenticated.
Additional 2010 Notes
Additional 2015 Notes
Additional Notes
 
 
The 2010 Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication with respect thereto shall be substantially in the form set forth in , which is incorporated in and forms a part of this Indenture. The 2015 Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication with respect thereto shall be substantially in the form set forth in , which is incorporated in and forms a part of this Indenture. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, rule or usage to which the Company is subject. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the 2010 Notes offered and sold to Qualified Institutional Buyers in reliance on Rule 144A (""), and the 2015 Notes offered and sold to Qualified Institutional Buyers in reliance on Rule 144A ("" and, together with the 2010 Rule 144A Notes, the "") shall bear the legend and include the form of assignment set forth in , the 2010 Notes offered and sold in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S ("") and the 2015 Notes offered and sold in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S ("" and, together with the 2010 Regulation S Notes, the "") shall bear the legend and include the form of assignment set forth in . Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication.
Exhibit A-1
Exhibit A-2
2010 Rule 144A Notes
2015 Rule 144A Notes
Rule 144A Notes
Exhibit B
2010 Regulation S Notes
2015 Regulation S Notes
Regulation S Notes
Exhibit C
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are expressly made, a part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and agree to be bound thereby.
 
The Notes may be presented for registration of transfer and exchange at the offices of the Registrar.
 
 
The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, President or any Vice President. The signature of any of these officers on the Notes may be manual or facsimile.
 
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note was an Officer at the time of such execution but no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note, the Note shall be valid nevertheless.
 
No Note shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Note a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Note shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Note has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Note shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Note to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 2.12, for all purposes of this Indenture such Note shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
The Notes shall be issuable only in fully registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
 
 
The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (the ""), and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (the "") and an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company, if any, in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Registrar shall keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more additional Paying Agents. The term "Paying Agent" includes any additional Paying Agent.
Registrar
Paying Agent
 
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement, which shall incorporate the provisions of the TIA, with any Agent that is not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such Agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar or Paying Agent, or fails to give the foregoing notice, the
 
Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation in accordance with Section 7.07.
 
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Paying Agent and Agent for service of notices and demands in connection with the Notes and this Indenture and the Company may change the Paying Agent without prior notice to the Holders. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent.
 
 
Each Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal of or premium or interest on the Notes (whether such money has been paid to it by the Company or any other obligor on the Notes), and the Company and the Paying Agent shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes) in making any such payment. Money held in trust by the Paying Agent need not be segregated except as required by law and in no event shall the Paying Agent be liable for any interest on any money received by it hereunder; that if the Company or an Affiliate thereof acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require the Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and account for any funds disbursed and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(1) or (2), upon written request to the Paying Agent, require the Paying Agent to pay forthwith all money so held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed. Upon making such payment, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money delivered to the Trustee.
provided
 
 
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of the Holders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee at least five Business Days before each Interest Payment Date, and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders; that, as long as the Trustee is the Registrar, no such list need be furnished.
provided
 
 
Subject to Sections 2.16 and 2.17, when Notes are presented to the Registrar with a request from the Holder of such Notes to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Notes of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer as requested. Every Note presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in
 
form satisfactory to the Company and the Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorneys duly authorized in writing. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall issue and execute and the Trustee shall authenticate new Notes evidencing such transfer or exchange at the Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made to the Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange. The Company may require from the Holder payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer taxes or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation to a transfer or exchange, but this provision shall not apply to any exchange pursuant to Section 2.11, 3.06 or 8.05 (in which events the Company shall be responsible for the payment of such taxes). The Registrar shall not be required to exchange or register a transfer of any Note for a period of 15 days immediately preceding the redemption of Notes, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
 
Any Holder of the Global Note shall, by acceptance of such Global Note, agree that transfers of the beneficial interests in such Global Note may be effected only through a book entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Note (or its agent), and that ownership of a beneficial interest in the Global Note shall be required to be reflected in a book entry.
 
Except as expressly provided herein, neither the Trustee nor the Registrar shall have any duty to monitor the Company's compliance with or have any responsibility with respect to the Company's compliance with any Federal or state securities laws.
 
 
If a mutilated Note is surrendered to the Registrar or the Trustee, or if the Holder of a Note claims that the Note has been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a replacement Note if the Holder of such Note furnishes to the Company and the Trustee evidence reasonably acceptable to them of the ownership and the destruction, loss or theft of such Note and if the requirements of Section 8-405 of the New York Uniform Commercial Code as in effect on the date of this Indenture are met. If required by the Trustee or the Company, an indemnity bond shall be posted, sufficient in the judgment of all to protect the Company, the Trustee or any Paying Agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if such Note is replaced. The Company may charge such Holder for the Company's reasonable out-of-pocket expenses in replacing such Note and the Trustee may charge the Company for the Trustee's expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and disbursements) in replacing such Note. Every replacement Note shall constitute a contractual obligation of the Company.
 
 
The Notes outstanding at any time are all Notes that have been authenticated by the Trustee except for (a) those canceled by it, (b) those delivered to it for cancellation, (c) to the extent set forth in Sections 9.01 and 9.02, on or after the date on which the
 
conditions set forth in Section 9.01 or 9.02 have been satisfied, those Notes theretofore authenticated and delivered by the Trustee hereunder and (d) those described in this Section 2.09 as not outstanding. Subject to Section 2.10, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or one of its Affiliates holds the Note.
 
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.08, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Note is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company.
 
If the Paying Agent holds, in its capacity as such, on any Maturity Date, money sufficient to pay all accrued interest and principal with respect to the Notes payable on that date and is not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders thereof pursuant to the terms of this Indenture, then on and after that date such Notes cease to be outstanding and interest on them ceases to accrue.
 
 
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any declaration of acceleration or notice of default or direction, waiver or consent or any amendment, modification or other change to this Indenture, Notes owned by the Company or any other Affiliate of the Company shall be disregarded as though they were not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent or any amendment, modification or other change to this Indenture, only Notes as to which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actually received an Officers' Certificate stating that such Notes are so owned shall be so disregarded. Notes so owned which have been pledged in good faith shall not be disregarded if the pledgee established to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to the Notes and that the pledgee is not the Company any other obligor on the Notes or any of their respective Affiliates.
 
 
Until definitive Notes are prepared and ready for delivery, the Company may prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes shall be substantially in the form of definitive Notes but may have variations that the Company considers appropriate for temporary Notes. Without unreasonable delay, the Company shall prepare and the Trustee shall authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes. Until such exchange, temporary Notes shall be entitled to the same rights, benefits and privileges as definitive Notes.
 
 
The Company at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and the Paying Agent shall forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee shall cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and shall deliver such canceled Notes to the Company. The Company may not reissue or resell, or issue new Notes to replace Notes that the Company has redeemed or paid, or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
 
If the Company defaults on a payment of interest on the Notes, it shall pay the defaulted interest, plus (to the extent permitted by law) any interest payable on the defaulted interest, in accordance with the terms hereof, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, which date shall be at least five Business Days prior to the payment date. The Company shall fix such special record date and payment date in a manner satisfactory to the Trustee. At least 10 days before such special record date, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice that states the special record date, the payment date and the amount of defaulted interest, and interest payable on defaulted interest, if any, to be paid. The Company may make payment of any defaulted interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements (if applicable) of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed and, upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after written notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this sentence, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
 
The Company in issuing the Notes may use a "CUSIP" number, and if so, such CUSIP number shall be included in notices of redemption or exchange as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number printed in the notice or on the Notes, and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Notes. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of any such CUSIP number used by the Company in connection with the issuance of the Notes and of any change in the CUSIP number.
provided
 
 
Prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on each Interest Payment Date and Maturity Date, the Company shall have deposited with the Paying Agent in immediately available funds money sufficient to make cash payments, if any, due on such Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date, as the case may be, in a timely manner which permits the Trustee to remit payment to the Holders on such Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date, as the case
 
may be. The principal and interest on Global Notes shall be payable to the Depository or its nominee, as the case may be, as the sole registered owner and the sole Holder of the Global Notes represented thereby. The principal and interest on Physical Notes shall be payable, either in person or by mail, at the office of the Paying Agent.
 
 
(a) The 2010 Rule 144A Notes shall be represented by one or more Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (collectively, the ""). The 2015 Rule 144A Notes shall be represented by one or more Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (collectively, the "" and, together with the 2010 Restricted Global Note, the ""). The 2010 Regulation S Notes initially shall be represented by one or more Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (collectively, the ""). The 2015 Regulation S Notes initially shall be represented by one or more Notes in registered, global form without interest coupons (collectively, the "" and, together with the 2010 Regulation S Global Note, the ""). The Restricted Global Note and the Regulation S Global Note and any other global notes representing the Notes (collectively, the "") shall bear legends as set forth in . The Global Notes initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depository or the nominee of such Depository, in each case for credit to an account of an Agent Member, (ii) be delivered to the Trustee as custodian for such Depository and (iii) bear legends as set forth in with respect to Restricted Global Notes and with respect to Regulation S Global Notes.
2010 Restricted Global Note
2015 Restricted Global Note
Restricted Global Note
2010 Regulation S Global Note
2015 Regulation S Global Note
Regulation S Global Note
Global Notes
Exhibit D
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
 
Members of, or direct or indirect participants in, the Depository ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Note held on their behalf by the Depository, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under the Global Notes, and the Depository may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of the Global Note for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization (which may be in electronic form) furnished by the Depository or impair, as between the Depository and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Note.
Agent Members
 
(b) Transfers of Global Notes shall be limited to transfer in whole, but not in part, to the Depository, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in the Global Notes may be transferred or exchanged for Physical Notes in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depository and the provisions of Section 2.17. In addition, a Global Note shall be exchangeable for Physical Notes if (i) the Depository (x) notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as depository for such Global Note or
 
(y) has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and, with respect to (x) or (y), the Company thereupon fails to appoint a successor depository within 90 days of such notice or cessation, (ii) the Company, at its option, notifies the Trustee in writing that it elects to cause the issuance of such Physical Notes in exchange for any or all of the Notes represented by the Global Notes or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes. In all cases, Physical Notes delivered in exchange for any Global Note or beneficial interests therein shall be registered in the names, and issued in any approved denominations, requested by or on behalf of the Depository (in accordance with its customary procedures).
 
(c) In connection with any transfer or exchange of a portion of the beneficial interest in any Global Note to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (b), the Registrar shall (if one or more Physical Notes are to be issued) reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to be transferred, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall upon receipt of a written order from the Company authenticate and make available for delivery, one or more Physical Notes of like tenor and amount.
 
(d) In connection with the transfer of Global Notes as an entirety to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (b), the Global Notes shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depository in writing in exchange for its beneficial interest in the Global Notes, an equal aggregate principal amount of Physical Notes of authorized denominations.
 
(e) Any Physical Note constituting a Restricted Note delivered in exchange for an interest in a Global Note pursuant to paragraph (b), (c) or (d) shall, except as otherwise provided by paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section 2.17, bear the Private Placement Legend or, in the case of the Regulation S Global Note, the legend set forth in , in each case, unless the Company determines otherwise in compliance with applicable law.
Exhibit C
 
(f) Any beneficial interest in one of the Global Notes that is transferred to a Person who takes delivery in the form of an interest in another Global Note shall, upon transfer, cease to be an interest in such Global Note and become an interest in such other Global Note and, accordingly, shall thereafter be subject to all transfer restrictions and other procedures applicable to beneficial interests in such other Global Note for as long as it remains such an interest.
 
(g) The Holder of any Global Note may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Notes.
 
 
(a) . The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration or any proposed registration of transfer of a Note constituting a Restricted Note to a QIB (excluding transfers to Non-U.S. Persons):
Transfers to QIBs
 
(i) the Registrar shall register the transfer if such transfer is being made by a proposed transferor who has checked the box provided for on such Holder's Note stating, or to a transferee who has advised the Company and the Registrar in writing, that it is purchasing the Note for its own account or an account with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and any such account is a QIB within the meaning of Rule 144A, and is aware that the sale to it is being made in reliance on Rule 144A and acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as it has requested pursuant to Rule 144A or has determined not to request such information and that it is aware that the transferor is relying upon its foregoing representations in order to claim the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A; and
 
(ii) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, and the Notes to be transferred consist of Physical Notes which after transfer are to be evidenced by an interest in the Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions given in accordance with the Depository's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Physical Notes to be transferred, and the Trustee shall cancel the Physical Notes so transferred.
 
(b) . The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration of any proposed transfer of a Note constituting a Restricted Note to any Institutional Accredited Investor which is not a QIB or to any Non-U.S. Person:
Transfers to Non-QIB Institutional Accredited Investors and Non-U.S. Persons
 
(i) the Registrar shall register the transfer of any Note constituting a Restricted Note whether or not such Note bears the Private Placement Legend, if (x) the requested transfer is after the second anniversary of the Issue Date ( that neither the Company nor any Affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note, or portion thereof, at any time on or prior to the second anniversary of the Issue Date) or (y)(1) in the case of a transfer to an Institutional Accredited Investor which is not a QIB (excluding Non-U.S. Persons), the proposed transferee has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of hereto and any legal opinions and certifications required thereby or (2) in the case of a transfer to a Non-U.S. Person, the proposed transferor has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of hereto; and
provided, however,
Exhibit F
Exhibit E
 
(ii) if the proposed transferor is an Agent Member holding a beneficial interest in the Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of (x) the certificate, if any, required by Section 2.17(b)(i) and (y) written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures; whereupon (a) the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and (if the transfer does not involve a transfer of outstanding Physical Notes) a decrease in the principal amount of such Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Global Note to be transferred and (b) the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Physical Notes of like tenor and amount; and
 
(iii) in the case of a transfer to a Non-U.S. Person, if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, and the Notes to be transferred consist of Physical Notes which after transfer are to be evidenced by an interest in a Regulation S Global Note, upon receipt by the Registrar of written instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of such Regulation S Global Note in an amount equal to the principal amount of Physical Notes to be transferred, and the Trustee shall cancel the Physical Notes so transferred.
 
(c) . Upon the registration of transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes not bearing the Private Placement Legend, the Registrar shall deliver Notes that do not bear the Private Placement Legend. Upon the registration of transfer, exchange or replacement of Notes bearing the Private Placement Legend, the Registrar shall deliver only Notes that bear the Private Placement Legend unless (i) there is delivered to the Registrar an Opinion of Counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee to the effect that neither such legend nor the related restrictions on transfer are required in order to maintain compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act or (ii) such Note has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and the Registrar has received an Officers' Certificate from the Company to such effect or (iii) the requested transfer is after the second anniversary of the Issue Date (, , that neither the Company nor an Affiliate of the Company has held any beneficial interest in such Note or portion thereof at any time since the Issue Date).
Private Placement Legend
provided
however
 
(d) . By its acceptance of any Note bearing the Private Placement Legend, each Holder of such Note acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Note set forth in this Indenture and in the Private Placement Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Note only as provided in this Indenture.
General
 
(e) . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture:
Certain Transfers in Connection with and After the Exchange Offer under the Registration Rights Agreement
 
(i) no Exchange Notes may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for a Note issued on the Issue Date;
 
(ii) accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes issued on the Issue Date being exchanged in the exchange offer contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement (the "") shall be due and payable on the next Interest Payment Date for the Exchange Notes following the Exchange Offer and shall be paid to the Holder on the relevant record date of the Exchange Notes issued in respect of the Note issued on the Issue Date being exchanged; and
Exchange Offer
 
(iii) interest on the Note issued on the Issue Date being exchanged in the Exchange Offer shall cease to accrue on the date of completion of the Exchange Offer and interest on the Exchange Notes to be issued in the Exchange Offer shall accrue from the date of the completion of the Exchange Offer.
 
The Registrar shall retain for a period of two years copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to Section 2.16 or this Section 2.17. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time upon the giving of reasonable notice to the Registrar.
 
 
Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
 
 
 
If the Company elects to redeem 2010 Notes or 2015 Notes, as the case may be, pursuant to paragraph 5 or 6 of the 2010 Notes or paragraph 5 or 6 of the 2015 Notes, at least 30 days prior to the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be agreed to in writing by the Trustee) but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date, the Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the principal amount of such Notes to be redeemed and the Redemption Price, and deliver to the Trustee, no later than two Business Days prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate stating that such redemption will comply with the conditions contained in paragraph 5 or 6 of the respective Notes. Notice given to the Trustee pursuant to this Section 3.01 may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent.
 
 
The Trustee shall select the Notes to be redeemed on a basis or on as nearly a basis as is practicable (subject to procedures of the Depository). The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of the Notes selected for redemption and, in the case of any Notes selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. The Trustee may select for redemption portions of the principal of the Notes that have denominations larger than $1,000. Notes and portions thereof the Trustee selects shall be redeemed in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000. For all purposes of this Indenture unless the context otherwise requires, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption.
pro
rata
pro
rata
 
 
At least 30 days, and no more than 60 days, before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail, or cause to be mailed, a notice of redemption by first-class mail to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at his or her last address as the same appears on the registry books maintained by the Registrar pursuant to Section 2.04.
 
The notice shall identify the Notes to be redeemed (including the CUSIP numbers thereof) and shall state:
 
(i) the Redemption Date;
 
(ii) the appropriate calculation of the Redemption Price;
 
(iii) if fewer than all outstanding Notes are to be redeemed, the portion of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed and that, after the Redemption Date and upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion will be issued;
 
(iv) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
 
(v) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price;
 
(vi) that unless the Company defaults in making the redemption payment, interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the Redemption Date;
 
(vii) if such notice is conditioned upon the occurrence of one or more conditions precedent, the nature of such conditions precedent; and
 
(viii) the aggregate principal amount of Notes that are being redeemed.
 
At the Company's written request made at least five Business Days prior to the date on which notice is to be given, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's sole expense.
 
 
Once the notice of redemption described in Section 3.03 is mailed, Notes called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price, including any premium, plus interest accrued to the Redemption Date. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Notes shall be paid at the Redemption Price, including any premium, plus interest accrued to the Redemption Date; that if the Redemption Date is after a regular record date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date, the accrued interest shall be payable to the Holder of the redeemed Notes registered on the relevant record date; and , , that if a Redemption Date is a Legal Holiday, payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest shall accrue for the period from such Redemption Date to such succeeding Business Day. Such notice, if mailed in the manner provided in Section 3.03, shall be conclusively presumed to have been given whether or not the Holder receives such notice.
provided
provided
further
 
 
On or prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on each Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent in immediately available funds money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, including premium, if any, and accrued interest on all Notes to be redeemed on that date other than Notes or portions thereof called for redemption on that date which have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation.
 
On and after any Redemption Date, if money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, including premium, if any, and accrued interest on Notes called for redemption shall have been made available in accordance with the immediately preceding paragraph, the Notes called for redemption will cease to accrue interest and the only right of the Holders of such Notes will be to receive payment of the Redemption Price of and, subject to the first proviso in Section 3.04, accrued and unpaid interest on such Notes to the Redemption Date. If any Note surrendered for redemption shall not be so paid, interest will be paid, from the Redemption Date until such redemption payment is made, on the unpaid principal of the Note and any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate and in the manner provided in the Notes.
 
 
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate for the Holder thereof a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed portion of the original Note in the name of the Holder upon cancellation of
 
the original Note surrendered, except that if a Global Note is so surrendered, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Depository, a new Global Note in denomination equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Global Note so surrendered.
 
 
The Company is not required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes, except as set forth in paragraph 6 of the Notes.
 
 
 
 
The Company covenants and agrees that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Notes and this Indenture.
 
 
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for Notes an office or agency where Notes may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Notes for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
 
 
Subject to Article Five, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence as a corporation.
 
 
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to the Notes, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any of the Notes, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
Whenever the Company shall have a Paying Agent for the Notes, it will, prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on the Notes, deposit with the Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Company will cause the Paying Agent, other than the Trustee, to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which the Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that the Paying Agent will:
 
(1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on the Notes in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
 
(2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest on the Notes; and
 
(3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by the Paying Agent.
 
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct the Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or the Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or the Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by the Paying
 
Agent to the Trustee, the Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
Any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on the Notes and remaining unclaimed for three years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Order, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or the Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or the Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published on each Business Day and of general circulation in New York, New York, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
 
 
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims against the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary for labor, materials and supplies which in the case of either clause (1) or (2) of this Section, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon a Principal Property; , , that neither the Company nor any Restricted Subsidiary shall be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
provided
however
 
 
(a) The Company will not, nor will it permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, incur, issue, assume or guarantee any indebtedness for borrowed money (hereinafter called "") secured by a mortgage, security interest, pledge or lien (hereinafter called "") of or upon any Principal Property or on any shares of capital stock or indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary (whether such Principal Property, shares of capital stock or indebtedness is now owned or hereafter acquired) without in any such case making or causing to be made effective provision (and the Company covenants that in any such case it shall make or cause to be made effective provision) whereby the Notes (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness created, incurred, issued, assumed or guaranteed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and then existing or thereafter
indebtedness
mortgage
 
created) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or, at the option of the Company, prior to) such indebtedness, so long as such indebtedness shall be so secured.
 
(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section shall not, however, apply to any indebtedness secured by any one or more of the following:
 
(1) mortgages of or upon any property acquired, constructed or improved by, or of or upon any shares of capital stock or indebtedness acquired by, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary after the date of this Indenture (A) to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of such property, shares of capital stock or indebtedness upon the acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, or (B) to secure any indebtedness issued, assumed or guaranteed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary prior to, at the time of, or within 180 days after (i) in the case of property, the later of the acquisition, completion of construction (including any improvements on existing property) or commencement of commercial operation of such property or (ii) in the case of shares of capital stock or indebtedness, the acquisition of such shares of capital stock or indebtedness, which indebtedness is issued, assumed or guaranteed for the purpose of financing or refinancing all or any part of the purchase price of such property, shares of capital stock or indebtedness and, in the case of property, the cost of construction thereof or improvements thereon, provided that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement the mortgage shall not apply to any property, shares of capital stock or indebtedness theretofore owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary, other than, in the case of any such construction or improvement, any theretofore unimproved or substantially unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or the improvement is located;
 
(2) mortgages of or upon any property, shares of capital stock or indebtedness existing at the time of acquisition thereof by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary;
 
(3) mortgages of or upon any property of a corporation existing at the time such corporation is merged with or into or consolidated with the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or existing at the time of a sale or transfer of the properties of a corporation as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary;
 
(4) mortgages of or upon any property of, or shares of capital stock or indebtedness of, a corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Restricted Subsidiary;
 
(5) mortgages to secure indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary to the Company or to another Restricted Subsidiary;
 
(6) mortgages in favor of the United States of America or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality or political subdivision of the United States of America or any State thereof, or in favor of any other country or political subdivision, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any indebtedness incurred or guaranteed for the purpose of financing or refinancing all or any part of the purchase price of the property, shares of capital stock or indebtedness subject to such mortgages, or the cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such mortgages (including, without limitation, mortgages incurred in connection with pollution control, industrial revenue or similar financings); and
 
(7) any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any mortgage existing at the date of this Indenture or any mortgage referred to in the foregoing clauses (1) through (6), inclusive, , , that the principal amount of indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of indebtedness so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property (plus improvements and construction on such property), shares of capital stock or indebtedness which was subject to the mortgage so extended, renewed or replaced.
provided
however
 
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 4.06, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, without equally and ratably securing the Notes, issue, assume or guarantee indebtedness secured by a mortgage not excepted by clauses (1) through (7) of paragraph (b) of this Section 4.06, if the aggregate amount of such indebtedness, together with all other indebtedness of, or indebtedness guaranteed by, the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries existing at such time and secured by mortgages not so excepted and the Attributable Debt in respect of Sale and Lease-Back Transactions existing at such time (other than Sale and Lease-Back Transactions permitted by clause (i) of Section 4.07 and other than Sale and Lease-Back Transactions the proceeds of which have been applied in accordance with clause (iii) of Section 4.07), does not at the time exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
 
The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired (except for temporary leases for a term, including any renewal thereof, of not more than three years and except for leases between the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary, between any Restricted Subsidiary and the Company or between Restricted Subsidiaries), which property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such
 
Person with the intention of taking back a lease of such property (herein referred to as a "") unless (i) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would (at the time of entering into such arrangement) be entitled pursuant to clause (1) or (6) of Section 4.06(b), without equally and ratably securing the Notes, to issue, assume or guarantee indebtedness secured by a mortgage on such property, or (ii) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would (at the time of entering into such arrangement) be entitled pursuant to Section 4.06(c), without equally and ratably securing the Notes, to issue, assume or guarantee indebtedness secured by a mortgage on such property in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt in respect of such Sale and Lease-Back Transaction or (iii) the Company shall apply, within 180 days of the effective date of any such arrangement, an amount not less than the greater of (x) the net proceeds of the sale of such property or (y) the fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors) of such property to either the prepayment or retirement (other than any mandatory prepayment or retirement) of indebtedness incurred or assumed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary (other than indebtedness owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary) which by its terms matures at or is extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor to a date more than twelve months after the date of the creation of such indebtedness, or to the acquisition, construction or improvement of a manufacturing plant or manufacturing facility which is, or upon such acquisition, construction or improvement will be, a Principal Property.
Sale and Lease-Back Transaction
 
 
The Company shall file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of said Sections, then it shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations.
 
So long as any of the Notes remain restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, the Company will make available upon request to any prospective purchaser of Notes or beneficial owner of Notes in connection with any sale thereof the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive
 
notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
All references in this Agreement to the filing of documents with the Commission includes, at such time as is permitted pursuant to this Section, the delivering of the same to the Trustee.
 
 
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of Sections 4.06 and 4.07 hereof, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
 
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in Section 4.06 and 4.07 with respect to the Notes if before the time for such compliance the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall, by act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
The Company may consolidate or merge with or into any other corporation, or lease, sell or transfer all or substantially all of its property and assets if:
 
(a) the corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged, or the party which acquires by lease, sale or transfer all or substantially all of the Company's property and assets is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any state in the United States or the District of Columbia;
 
(b) the corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged, or the party which acquires by lease, sale or transfer all or substantially all of the Company's property and assets, agrees to pay the principal of, and any premium and interest on, the Notes and perform and observe all covenants and conditions of this Indenture by executing and delivering to the Trustee a supplemental indenture; and
 
(c) immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating indebtedness for borrowed money which becomes the Company's obligation or an obligation of a Restricted Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, has happened and is continuing.
 
If, upon any such consolidation or merger, or upon any such lease, sale or transfer as provided above, any Principal Property or any shares of capital stock or indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary, owned immediately prior to the transaction, would thereupon become subject to any mortgage, security interest, pledge or lien securing any indebtedness for borrowed money of, or guaranteed by, such other corporation or party (other than any mortgage, security interest, pledge or lien permitted as described Section 4.06 hereof), the Company, prior to such consolidation, merger, lease, sale or transfer, will, by executing and delivering to the Trustee a supplemental indenture, secure the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium and interest on, the Notes (together with, if the Company decides, any other indebtedness of, or guaranteed by, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and then existing or thereafter created) equally and proportionately with (or, at the Company's option, prior to) the indebtedness secured by such mortgage, security interest, pledge or lien.
 
 
 
 
The following events shall be "":
Events of Default
 
(1) a failure to pay interest upon the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, that continues for a period of 30 days after payment is due;
 
(2) a failure to pay the principal or premium, if any, on the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, when due upon maturity, redemption, acceleration or otherwise;
 
(3) a failure to comply with any of the Company's other agreements contained in this Indenture applicable to the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, for a period of 90 days after written notice to the Company of such failure from the Trustee (or to the Company and the Trustee from the holders of at least 25% of the principal amount of the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be) specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder;
Notice of Default
 
(4) the Company pursuant to or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
 
(A) commences a voluntary insolvency proceeding;
 
(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary insolvency proceeding or consents to its dissolution or winding-up;
 
(C) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property; or
 
(D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
 
or takes any comparable action under any foreign laws relating to insolvency; , , that the liquidation of any Restricted Subsidiary into another Restricted Subsidiary, other than as part of a credit reorganization, shall not constitute an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(4); and
provided
however
 
(5) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
(A) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary insolvency proceeding;
 
(B) appoints a Custodian of the Company or for any substantial part of its property;
 
(C) orders the winding-up, liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
 
(D) orders the presentation of any plan or arrangement, compromise or reorganization of the Company; or
 
(E) grants any similar relief under any foreign laws;
 
and in each such case the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 90 days;
 
The foregoing will constitute Events of Default whatever the reason for any such Event of Default and whether it is voluntary or involuntary or is effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body.
 
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5)) shall have occurred and be continuing, the Trustee or the registered Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, then outstanding may declare to be immediately due and payable the principal amount of all the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, then outstanding by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, plus accrued but unpaid interest to the date of acceleration. In case an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5) shall occur, such amount with respect to all the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, shall be automatically due and payable immediately without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or the Holders of the Notes. After any such acceleration, but before a judgment or decree based on acceleration is obtained by the Trustee, the registered Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, then outstanding may rescind and annul such acceleration if (i) if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree, (ii) if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of principal, premium or interest that has become due solely because of the acceleration, (iii) to the extent the payment of such interest is lawful, interest on overdue installments of interest and overdue principal, which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration, has been paid, (iv) if the Company has paid the Trustee its reasonable compensation and reimbursed the Trustee for its expenses, disbursements and advances and all other amounts due to the Trustee under Section 7.07 and (v) in the event of the cure or waiver of an Event of Default of the type described in either Section 6.01(4) or (5), the Trustee shall have received an Officers' Certificate to the effect that such Event of Default has been cured or waived. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
 
Subject to Section 7.01, in case an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights or powers under this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of the Notes, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity. Subject to Section 7.07, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding will have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Notes.
 
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy by proceeding at law or in equity to collect the payment of principal of, or premium, if any, and interest on the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture and may take any necessary action requested of it as Trustee to settle, compromise, adjust or otherwise conclude any proceedings to which it is a party.
 
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. Any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee may be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes in respect of which such judgment has been recovered. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative, to the extent permitted by law. Any costs associated with actions taken by the Trustee under this Section 6.03 shall be reimbursed to the Trustee by the Company.
 
 
Provided the Notes are not then due and payable by reason of a declaration of acceleration, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, may on behalf of the Holders of all the affected Notes waive any past Default with respect to such Notes and its consequences by providing written notice thereof to the Company and the Trustee, except a Default (1) in the payment of interest on or the principal of any Note or (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under this Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Note affected. In the case of any such waiver, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, will be restored to their former positions and rights under this Indenture, respectively; that no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
provided
 
 
The Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture, that may involve the Trustee in personal liability, or that the Trustee determines in good faith may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of
 
Holders of the affected Notes not joining in the giving of such direction and may take any other action it deems proper that is not inconsistent with any such direction received from Holders of the Notes.
 
 
No Holder of Notes will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any remedy hereunder, unless:
 
(1) the Holder gives the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default,
 
(2) the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of outstanding 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, make a written request to the Trustee to institute such proceeding or pursue such remedy as trustee,
 
(3) such Holder or Holders offer the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any costs, liability or expense,
 
(4) the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of the request and the offer of indemnity, and
 
(5) during such 60-day period the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, do not give the Trustee a direction that is inconsistent with the request.
 
However, such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by a Holder of any Note for enforcement of payment of the principal of, and premium, if any, or interest on, such Note on or after the respective due date expressed in such Note.
 
 
No director, manager, trustee, officer, employee, member, partner or stockholder of the Company shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, or this Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. This waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws.
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on such Note or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment, on or after the due date expressed in the Notes shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of the Holder.
 
 
If an Event of Default in payment of principal, premium or interest specified in Section 6.01(1) or (2) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company (or any other obligor on the Notes) for the whole amount of unpaid principal and accrued interest remaining unpaid.
 
 
The Trustee may file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07) and the Holders allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and, unless prohibited by law, shall be entitled and empowered to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same after deduction of its charges and expenses to the extent that any such charges and expenses are not paid out of the estate in any such proceedings and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07.
 
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan or reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceedings. All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Notes may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Notes thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
 
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article Six, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 7.07;
 
SECOND: to Holders for amounts due and unpaid on the affected Notes for principal, premium, if any, and interest (including Additional Interest, if any) as to each, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes; and
 
THIRD: to the Company.
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders pursuant to this Section 6.11.
 
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.12 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 6.08 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding.
 
 
 
 
(a) If an Event of Default actually known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Person's own affairs.
 
The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written
 
notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture.
 
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(1) The Trustee need perform only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others.
 
(2) In the absence of bad faith or willful misconduct on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture but, in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform on their face to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein). Whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate, subject to the requirement in the preceding sentence, if applicable.
 
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(1) This paragraph does not limit the effect of Section 7.01(b).
 
(2) The Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible Officers of the Trustee, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.
 
(3) The Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes received by it pursuant to the terms hereof.
 
(4) No provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its rights, powers or duties if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity satisfactory to it against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, Sections 7.01(a), (b), (c) and (e) shall govern every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee.
 
(e) The Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request.
 
(f) The Trustee shall not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Company. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by the law.
 
 
Subject to Section 7.01:
 
(1) The Trustee may conclusively rely on any document (whether in its original or facsimile form) reasonably believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
 
(2) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel, or both, which shall conform to the provisions of Section 10.05. The Trustee shall be protected and shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such certificate or opinion.
 
(3) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed by it with due care.
 
(4) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it reasonably believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers; that the Trustee's conduct does not constitute willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
provided
 
(5) The Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection, and the advice or opinion of such counsel with respect to legal matters relating to the Notes or this Indenture shall be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, omitted or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with the advice or opinion of such counsel.
 
(6) The rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other person employed to act hereunder.
 
(7) The Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books records, and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation.
 
(8) The Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(9) The Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Notes and this Indenture.
 
(10) The Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not suspended.
 
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may make loans to, accept deposits from, perform services for or otherwise deal with the either of the Company, or any Affiliate thereof, with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Agent may do the same with like rights. The Trustee, however, shall be subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11.
 
 
The Trustee shall not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes and it shall not be accountable for the Company's use of the proceeds from the sale of Notes or any money paid to the Company pursuant to the terms of this Indenture and it shall not be responsible for any statement in the Notes or this Indenture other than its certificate of authentication, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Notes and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in any Statement of Eligibility and Qualification on Form T-1 to be supplied to the Company will be true and accurate subject to the qualifications set forth therein.
 
 
If a Default occurs and is continuing and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Holder a notice of the Default within 90 days after it occurs in the manner and to the extent provided in the TIA and otherwise as provided in this Indenture. Except in the case of a Default in payment of the principal of or interest on any Note (including payments pursuant to a redemption or repurchase of the Notes pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders.
 
 
If required by TIA  313(a), within 60 days after June 15 of any year, commencing 2005 the Trustee shall mail to each Holder a brief report dated as of such date that complies with TIA  313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA  313(b)(2). The Trustee shall also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA  313(c) and TIA  313(d).
 
Reports pursuant to this Section 7.06 shall be transmitted by mail:
 
(1) to all Holders of Notes, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Registrar's books; and
 
(2) to such Holders of Notes as have, within the two years preceding such transmission, filed their names and addresses with the Trustee for that purpose.
 
A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be filed with the Commission and each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed. The Company shall promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
 
 
The Company shall pay to the Trustee and Agents from time to time such compensation for their services hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust) as shall be agreed upon in writing. The Company shall reimburse the Trustee and Agents upon request for all reasonable disbursements, expenses and advances incurred or made by them in connection with the Trustee's duties under this Indenture, including the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and external counsel, except any expense disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
 
The Company shall fully indemnify each of the Trustee and any predecessor Trustee for, and hold each of them harmless against, any and all loss, damage, claim, liability or expense, including without limitation taxes (other than taxes based on the income of the Trustee or such Agent) and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by each of them in connection with the acceptance or performance of its duties under this Indenture including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder (including, without limitation, settlement costs). The Trustee or Agent shall notify the Company in writing promptly of any claim of which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge asserted against the Trustee or Agent for which it may seek indemnity; that the failure by the Trustee or Agent to so notify the Company shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder except to the extent the Company is actually prejudiced thereby. In the event that a conflict of interest exists, the Trustee may have separate counsel, which counsel must be reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel.
provided
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company need not reimburse the Trustee for any expense or indemnify it against any loss or liability to have been incurred by the Trustee through its own willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith.
 
To secure the payment obligations of the Company in this Section 7.07, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee and such money or property held in trust to pay principal of and interest on particular Notes.
 
The obligations of the Company under this Section 7.07 to compensate and indemnify the Trustee, Agents and each predecessor Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee, Agents and each predecessor Trustee for expenses, disbursements and advances shall be the liability of the Company and shall survive the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the satisfaction, discharge or other termination of this Indenture, including any termination or rejection hereof under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(6) or (7) occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
For purposes of this Section 7.07, the term "Trustee" shall include any trustee appointed pursuant to this Article Seven.
 
 
The Trustee shall comply with Section 313(b) of the TIA, to the extent applicable.
 
The Trustee may resign by so notifying the Company in writing no later than 15 Business Days prior to the date of the proposed resignation. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by notifying the Company and the removed Trustee in writing and may appoint a successor Trustee with the Company's written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Company may remove the Trustee at its election if:
 
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 or Section 310 of the TIA;
 
(2) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief entered with respect to the Trustee under Bankruptcy Law;
 
(3) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(4) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee.
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction, in the case of the Trustee, for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10, any Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company. Immediately following such delivery, the retiring Trustee shall, subject to its rights under Section 7.07, transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. A successor Trustee shall mail notice of its succession to each Holder. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Company's obligations under Section 7.07 shall continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
 
 
If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust assets to, another corporation, subject to Section 7.10, the successor corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee; such entity shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article Seven.
provided
 
 
This Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA  310(a)(1), (2) and (5) in every respect. The Trustee (together with its corporate parent) shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50 million as set forth in the most recent applicable published annual report of condition. The Trustee shall comply with TIA  310(b), including the provision in  310(b)(1).
 
 
The Trustee shall comply with TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
 
The Company shall cause each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to it and the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section 7.12:
 
(A) that it will hold all sums held by it as agent for the payment of principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Company or by any obligor on the Notes) in trust for the benefit of Holders of the Notes or the Trustee;
 
(B) that it will at any time during the continuance of any Event of Default, upon written request from the Trustee, deliver to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by it together with a full accounting thereof; and
 
(C) that it will give the Trustee written notice within three (3) Business Days of any failure of the Company (or by any obligor on the Notes) in the payment of any installment of the principal of, premium, if any, or interest on, the Notes when the same shall be due and payable.
 
 
 
 
The Company and the Trustee may modify and amend this Indenture without the consent of any Holder, for any of the following purposes:
 
(i) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency in this Indenture;
 
(ii) to comply with Section 5.01;
 
(iii) to provide for uncertificated Notes, in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
 
(iv) to secure the Notes under this Indenture;
 
(v) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes or to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company;
 
(vi) to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights of any Holder of the Notes in any material respect;
 
(vii) to comply with any requirement of the Commission in connection with the qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act;
 
(viii) to provide for the issuance of Additional Notes in accordance with this Indenture, including the issuance of Additional Notes as restricted securities under the Securities Act and substantially identical Additional Notes pursuant to an Exchange Offer registered with the Commission; or
 
(ix) to evidence and provide the acceptance of the appointment of a successor Trustee under Section 7.09.
 
 
(a) This Indenture may be amended with the consent of the registered Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be (including consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for such Notes), and any past default or compliance with any provisions may also be waived (except a default in the payment of principal, premium or interest and under Section 8.02(b) below) with the consent of the registered Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be.
 
(b) However, without the consent of each Holder of an outstanding Note, no amendment may,
 
(i) change the due date of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be;
 
(ii) reduce the principal amount of, or any premium or interest rate on, the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be;
 
(iii) change the place or currency of payment of principal of, or any premium or interest on, the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be;
 
(iv) impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or with respect to the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, after the due date thereof; or
 
(v) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the then outstanding 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, the consent of whose holders is required for modification or amendment of the indenture, for waiver of compliance with certain provisions of the indenture or for waiver of certain defaults.
 
(c) The consent of the Holders of the Notes shall not be necessary to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment. It shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance of the proposed amendment.
 
(d) After an amendment that requires the consent of the Holders of the affected Notes becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each registered Holder of the affected Notes at such holder's address appearing in the security register a notice briefly describing such amendment. However, the failure to give such notice to all Holders of such Notes, or any defect therein, shall not impair or affect the validity of the amendment.
 
(e) Upon the written request of the Company accompanied by a board resolution authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the receipt by the Trustee of evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders as aforesaid and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 8.06, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture, in which case the Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
 
 
Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, shall comply with the TIA as then in effect.
 
 
(a) After an amendment, supplement, waiver or other action becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent conclusive and binding upon such Holder and every subsequent Holder of the same Note or portion thereof, and of any Note issued upon the transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in place thereof, even if notation of the consent is not made on any such Note.
 
(b) The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders entitled to consent to any amendment, supplement, or waiver. If a record date is fixed, then, notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, those Persons who were Holders at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only such Persons, shall be entitled to consent to such amendment, supplement, or waiver or to revoke any consent previously given, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No such consent shall be valid or effective for more than 90 days after such record date unless the consent of the requisite number of Holders has been obtained.
 
 
If an amendment, supplement, or waiver changes the terms of a Note, the Trustee (in accordance with the specific written direction of the Company) shall request the Holder of the Note (in accordance with the specific written direction of the Company) to deliver it to the Trustee. In such case, the Trustee shall place an appropriate notation on the Note about the changed terms and return it to the Holder. Alternatively, if the Company or the Trustee so determines, the Company in exchange for the Note shall issue and the Trustee shall authenticate a new Note that reflects the changed terms. Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note shall not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
 
The Trustee shall sign any amendment, supplement or waiver authorized pursuant to this Article Eight if the amendment, supplement or waiver does not affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does affect the rights, duties, liabilities or immunities of the Trustee, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such amendment, supplement or waiver. In signing or refusing to sign such amendment, supplement or waiver the Trustee shall be entitled to receive and, subject to Section 7.01, shall be fully protected in relying upon an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating, in addition to the matters required by Section 10.04, that such amendment, supplement or waiver is authorized or permitted by this Indenture and is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms (subject to customary exceptions).
 
 
 
 
(a) This Indenture shall be discharged and shall cease to be of further effect as to all Notes issued hereunder when:
 
(i) either (x) all 2010 Notes or all 2015 Notes, as the case may be, that have been authenticated, except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company, have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or (y) all 2010 Notes or all 2015 Notes, as the case may be, that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the mailing of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Company has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the benefit of the Holders of the affected Notes, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable Government Obligations, or a combination of cash in U.S. dollars and non-callable Government Obligations, in amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
 
(ii) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of the deposit;
 
(iii) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by it under this Indenture; and
 
(iv) the Company has delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, at maturity or the redemption date, as the case may be.
 
In addition, the Company shall deliver an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied and at the cost and expense of the Company.
 
(b) Subject to Sections 9.01(c) and 9.02, the Company may at any time elect to terminate some or all of its obligations under the outstanding Notes and this Indenture (hereinafter, "") except for obligations under Sections 2.04, 2.07 and 2.08 and obligations under the TIA. The Company may terminate its obligations (i) under Sections 4.06 through 4.08, and (ii) under Section 6.01(4) and (5) (with respect to Restricted Subsidiaries) on a date the conditions set forth in Section 9.02 are satisfied (hereinafter, "") and thereafter, any omission to comply with any covenant referred to in clause (ii) above will not constitute a Default or an Event of Default with respect to the Notes. The Company may exercise its Legal Defeasance option notwithstanding its prior exercise of its Covenant Defeasance option.
Legal Defeasance
Covenant Defeasance
 
(c) If the Company exercises its Legal Defeasance option, payment of the 2009 Notes or the 2014 Notes, as the case may be, may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default with respect thereto.
 
(d) Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth herein and upon request of the Company, the Trustee shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of those obligations that the Company terminates.
 
(e) Notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company's obligations in Sections 2.04, 2.06, 2.07, 2.08, 7.07, 9.05 and 9.06 shall survive until such time as the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, have been paid in full. Thereafter, the Company's obligations in Sections 7.07, 9.05 and 9.06 shall survive.
 
 
The Legal Defeasance option or the Covenant Defeasance option, in Section 9.01 may be exercised only if:
 
(a) the Company irrevocably deposits in trust with the Trustee money or Government Obligations, or a combination thereof, for the payment of principal of and interest on the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, to maturity or redemption, as the case may be;
 
(b) the Company delivers to the Trustee a certificate from an internationally recognized firm of independent certified public accountants expressing their opinion that the payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest when due and without reinvestment on the deposited Government Obligations plus any deposited money without investment will provide cash at such times and in such amounts as will be sufficient to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest when due on all the 2010 Notes or the 2015 Notes, as the case may be, to maturity or redemption, as the case may be;
 
(c) 123 days pass after the deposit is made and during the 123-day period no Default described in Section 6.01(5) occurs with respect to the Company or any other Person making such deposit which is continuing at the end of the period;
 
(d) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit and after giving effect thereto;
 
(e) such deposit does not constitute a default under any other material agreement or instrument binding on the Company;
 
(f) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the trust resulting from the deposit does not constitute, or is not qualified as, a regulated investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
 
(g) in the case of an election of Legal Defeasance under Section 9.01, the Company delivers to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that:
 
(1) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling; or
 
(2) since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable U.S. Federal income tax law,
 
to the effect, in either case, that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the affected Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance election and will be subject to U.S. Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same time as would have been the case if such election has not occurred;
 
(h) in the case of an election of Covenant Defeasance under Section 9.01, the Company delivers to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the affected Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to U.S. Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such election had not occurred; and
 
(i) the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent to an election under 9.01 have been complied with as required by this Indenture.
 
 
All money and Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 9.02(a) in respect of the outstanding Notes shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent, to the Holders of such Notes, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, and accrued interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 9.02(a) or the principal, premium, if any, and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes.
 
Anything in this Article Nine to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon a request of the Company any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 9.02(a) which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or Government Obligations in accordance with Section 9.01 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article Nine until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money or Government Obligations in accordance with Section 9.01; that if the Company has made any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or accrued interest on any Notes because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money or Government Obligations held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
 
 
In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all moneys then held by any Paying Agent under the provisions of this Indenture shall, upon written demand of the Company, be paid to the Trustee, or if sufficient moneys have been deposited pursuant to Section 9.02(a), to the Company upon a request of the Company, and thereupon the Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys.
 
 
Any moneys deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent or then held by the Company in trust for the payment of the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on any Note that are not applied but remain unclaimed by the Holder of such Note for two years after the date upon which the principal of, or premium, if any, or interest on such Note shall have respectively become due and payable shall be repaid to the Company upon a request of the Company, or if such moneys are then held by the Company in trust, such moneys shall be released from such trust; and the Holder of such Note entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for the payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or the Paying Agent with respect to such trust money shall thereupon cease; that the Trustee or the Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may, at the expense of the Company either mail to each Holder affected, at the address shown in the register of the Notes maintained by the Registrar pursuant to Section 2.04, or cause to be published once a week for two successive weeks, in a newspaper published in the English language, customarily published each Business Day and of general circulation in the City of New York, New York, a notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such mailing or publication, any unclaimed balance of such moneys then remaining will be repaid to the Company. After payment to the Company or the release of any money held in trust by the Company, Holders entitled to the money must look only to the Company for payment as general creditors unless applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
provided
 
 
 
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision which is required to be included in this Indenture by the TIA, the required provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies any TIA provision that may be so modified, such TIA provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified. If
 
any provision of this Indenture excludes any TIA provision that may be so excluded, such TIA provision shall be excluded from this Indenture.
 
The provisions of TIA  310 through 317 that impose duties on any Person (including the provisions automatically deemed included unless expressly excluded by this Indenture) are a part of and govern this Indenture, whether or not physically contained herein.
 
 
Except for notice or communications to Holders, any notice or communication shall be given in writing and when received if delivered in person, when receipt is acknowledged if sent by facsimile, on the next Business Day if timely delivered by a nationally recognized courier service that guarantees overnight delivery or two Business Days after deposit if mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
 
If to the Company prior to June 1, 2005:
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
77 West Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60601
Attn: General Counsel
Fax: (312) 326-8594
 
If to the Company on or after June 1, 2005:
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
111 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attn: General Counsel
Fax: (312) 326-8594
 
With a copy to:
 
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
125 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
Attn: Robert W. Downes
Fax: (212) 558-3588
 
If to the Trustee, Registrar or Paying Agent:
 
Mailing Address:
LaSalle Bank National Association
135 South LaSalle Street, Suite 1960
Chicago, Illinois 60603
Attn.: Corporate Trust Administration
Fax: (312) 904-2236
 
Such notices or communications shall be effective when received and shall be sufficiently given if so given within the time prescribed in this Indenture.
 
The Company or the Trustee by written notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
Any notice or communication mailed to a Holder shall be mailed to him by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at his address shown on the register kept by the Registrar.
 
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders. If a notice or communication to a Holder is mailed in the manner provided above, it shall be deemed duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service, or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impossible to mail any notice as required by this Indenture, then such method of notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient mailing of such notice.
 
 
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
 
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture (except for the issuance of Notes on the Issue Date), if so requested by the Trustee, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
(1) an Officers' Certificate (which shall include the statements set forth in Section 10.05 below) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent,
 
if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
 
(2) an Opinion of Counsel (which shall include statements to a similar effect as those set forth in Section 10.05(1), (2) and (3) below) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with (to the extent such conditions precedent involve legal conclusions).
 
 
Each certificate with respect to compliance by or on behalf of the Company with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
(1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, it or he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable it or him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
 
(4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such covenant or condition has been complied with.
 
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or meetings of Holders. The Registrar and Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
 
 
A "" is a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which (i) commercial banks in the City of New York and the City of Chicago are authorized or required by law to close or (ii) the New York Stock Exchange is not open for trading. If a payment date is a Legal Holiday at a place of payment, payment may be made at that place on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and no interest shall accrue for the intervening period.
Legal Holiday
 
 
This Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
This Indenture may not be used to interpret another indenture, loan, security or debt agreement of the Company. No such indenture, loan, security or debt agreement may be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
 
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Notes shall bind their respective successors. All agreements of the Trustee, any additional trustee and any Paying Agents in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
 
 
The parties may sign multiple counterparts of this Indenture. Each signed counterpart shall be deemed an original, but all of them together represent one and the same agreement.
 
 
The table of contents, cross-reference sheet and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof, and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
 
Each provision of this Indenture shall be considered separable and if for any reason any provision which is not essential to the effectuation of the basic purpose of this Indenture or the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Indenture to be duly executed all as of the date and year first written above.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A-1
 
CUSIP
 
 
No.                                                                                                                                                                $
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the ""), for value received, promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of [                    ] on May 15, 2010.
Company
 
Interest Payment Dates: May 15 and November 15.
 
Record Dates: May 1 and November 1.
 
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by one of its duly authorized officers.
 
 
 
This is one of the 4.95% Notes due 2010 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
1. . R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the ""), promises to pay, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, interest on the principal amount set forth on the face hereof at a rate of 4.95% per annum. Interest hereon will accrue from and including the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from and including [            ] to but excluding the date on which interest is paid. Interest shall be payable in arrears on each May 15 and November 15, commencing [            ]. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and on overdue interest (to the full extent permitted by law) at the rate borne by the Notes.
Interest
Company
 
2. . The Company will pay interest hereon (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders at the close of business on May 1 or November 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date (whether or not a Business Day). Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay to the Paying Agent principal and interest in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. If a Holder has given wire transfer instructions to the Company, the Company may pay, or cause to be paid by the Paying Agent, all principal, interest and Additional Interest, if any, on that Holder's Notes in accordance with those instructions. All other payments on the Notes will be made at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar unless the Company elects to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their address set forth in the register of Holders.
Method of Payment
 
3. . Initially, LaSalle Bank National Association (the "") will act as a Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to the Holders. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Paying Agent and Registrar
Trustee
 
4. . The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of May 23, 2005 (the "") between the Company and the Trustee. This is one of an issue of Notes of the Company issued, or to be issued, under the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb), as amended from time to time. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of them. Capitalized and certain other terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
Indenture
Indenture
 
5. . The Notes will be redeemable, at the Company's option, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of those payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption (the "") on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points, plus accrued interest to the Redemption Date. The Company may provide in such notice that payment of such price and performance of the Company's obligations with respect to such redemption or purchase may be performed by another Person. Any such notice may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent.
Optional Redemption
Redemption Date
 
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date.
Adjusted Treasury Rate
 
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of those notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
 
"" means (1) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and their respective successors; , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding that Redemption Date.
 
Any notice to holders of Notes of a redemption hereunder needs to include the appropriate calculation of the Redemption Price, but does not need to include the Redemption Price itself. The actual Redemption Price, calculated as described above, must be set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company delivered to the Trustee no later than two Business Days prior to the redemption date.
 
6. [In the event that, for any reason, (i) the proposed acquisition of The Astron Group Limited is not completed on or prior to September 30, 2005 (the "") or (ii) the Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of The Astron Group Limited, dated April 16, 2005 (the "") if terminated on or prior to the Deadline Date, the Company shall redeem (the "" all the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principle amount of the Notes on the Special Redemption Date, together with accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance to but excluding the Special Redemption Date.
Special Mandatory Redemption.
Deadline Date
Acquisition Agreement
Special Redemption
 
The "" means the earlier to occur of (a) October 31, 2005 and (b) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the Acquisition Agreement on or prior to the Deadline Date for any reason.
Special Redemption Date
 
Notice of the Special Redemption shall be mailed promptly after the occurrence of the event triggering the Special Redemption to each Holder at its registered address.]
1
 
7. . The Trustee will select Notes called for redemption on a basis or on as nearly a basis as is practicable (subject to procedures of the Depository); that no Notes of $1,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note. Notes called for redemption pursuant to this paragraph 7 hereto become due on the date fixed for redemption. On and after the Redemption Date, interest stops accruing on Notes or portions of them called for redemption.
Redemption Procedures
pro rata
pro
rata
provided
 
8. . Notices of redemption shall be mailed by first class mail at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption that relates to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
 
9. [. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement among the Company and the initial purchasers named therein (the ""), the Company will be obligated to consummate an exchange offer (the "") pursuant to which the Holder of this Note shall have the right to exchange this Note for Notes which have been registered under the Securities Act, in like principal amount and having substantially identical terms as the Notes.]
Registration Rights
Registration Rights Agreement
Exchange Offer
2
 
10. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay to it any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
11. . The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
12. . If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its written request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an "abandoned property" law designates another Person.
Unclaimed Money
 
13. . The Company and the Trustee (if a party thereto) may, without the consent of the Holders of any outstanding Notes, amend, waive or supplement the Indenture or the Notes for certain specified purposes, including, among other things, curing ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies, maintaining the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, providing for the assumption by a successor to the Company of its obligations under the Indenture and making any change that does not materially and adversely affect the rights of any Holder. Other amendments and modifications of the Indenture or the Notes may be made by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate
Amendment, Supplement, Waiver, Etc
 
principal amount of the outstanding Notes, subject to certain exceptions requiring the consent of the Holders of the particular Notes to be affected.
 
14. . When a successor corporation assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Notes and the Indenture and the transaction complies with the terms of Article Five of the Indenture, the predecessor corporation will, except as provided in Article Five, be released from those obligations.
Successor Corporation
 
15. . Events of Default are set forth in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5) of the Indenture) occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, either the Trustee, by notice in writing to the Company, or the Holders of not less than 25% of the principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company and the Trustee, may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare due and payable, if not already due and payable, the principal of and any accrued and unpaid interest on all of the Notes; and upon any such declaration all such amounts upon such Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable, anything in the Indenture or in the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5) of the Indenture occurs, then the principal of and any accrued and unpaid interest on all of the Notes shall immediately become due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes or a default in the observance or performance of any of the obligations of the Company under Article Five of the Indenture) if it determines that withholding notice is in their best interests.
Defaults and Remedies
 
16. . Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
 
17. . No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, agent, member or stockholder or Affiliate of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liabilities. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
18. . The Company's obligations pursuant to the Indenture will be discharged, except for obligations pursuant to certain sections thereof, subject to the terms
Discharge
 
of the Indenture, upon the payment of all the Notes or upon the irrevocable deposit with the Trustee of United States dollars or Government Obligations sufficient to pay when due principal of and interest on the Notes to maturity or redemption, as the case may be.
 
19. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
Authentication
 
20. . THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Trustee and the Company agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Indenture or the Notes.
Governing Law
 
21. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TENANT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
 
If to the Company prior to June 1, 2005:
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
77 West Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60601
Attn: General Counsel
Fax: (312) 326-8594
 
If to the Company on or after June 1, 2005:
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
111 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attn: General Counsel
Fax: (312) 326-8594
 
With a copy to:
 
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
125 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
Attn: Robert W. Downes
Tel: (212) 558-4000
Fax: (212) 558-3588
 
 
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
Agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The Agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
EXHIBIT A-2
 
CUSIP
 
 
No.                                                                                                                                                                $                             
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the ""), for value received, promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of [                    ] on May 15, 2015.
Company
 
Interest Payment Dates: May 15 and November 15.
 
Record Dates: May 1 and November 1.
 
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by one of its duly authorized officers.
 
 
 
This is one of the 5.50% Notes due 2015 referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Dated:
 
 
 
 
1. . R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY, a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the ""), promises to pay, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, interest on the principal amount set forth on the face hereof at a rate of 5.50% per annum. Interest hereon will accrue from and including the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from and including [            ] to but excluding the date on which interest is paid. Interest shall be payable in arrears on each May 15 and November 15, commencing [            ]. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and on overdue interest (to the full extent permitted by law) at the rate borne by the Notes.
Interest
Company
 
2. . The Company will pay interest hereon (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders at the close of business on May 1 or November 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date (whether or not a Business Day). Holders must surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay to the Paying Agent principal and interest in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. If a Holder has given wire transfer instructions to the Company, the Company may pay, or cause to be paid by the Paying Agent, all principal, interest and Additional Interest, if any, on that Holder's Notes in accordance with those instructions. All other payments on the Notes will be made at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar unless the Company elects to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their address set forth in the register of Holders.
Method of Payment
 
3. . Initially, LaSalle Bank National Association (the "") will act as a Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to the Holders. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Paying Agent and Registrar
Trustee
 
4. . The Company issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of May 23, 2005 (the "") between the Company and the Trustee. This is one of an issue of Notes of the Company issued, or to be issued, under the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb), as amended from time to time. The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of them. Capitalized and certain other terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
Indenture
Indenture
 
5. . The Notes will be redeemable, at the Company's option, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Quotation Agent, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes to be redeemed (not including any portion of those payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption (the "") on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, plus accrued interest to the Redemption Date. The Company may provide in such notice that payment of such price and performance of the Company's obligations with respect to such redemption or purchase may be performed by another Person. Any such notice may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent.
Optional Redemption
Redemption Date
 
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per year equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date.
Adjusted Treasury Rate
 
"" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of those notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for that Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
"" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
 
"" means (1) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and their respective successors; , , that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company shall substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by that Reference Treasury
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding that Redemption Date.
 
Any notice to holders of Notes of a redemption hereunder needs to include the appropriate calculation of the Redemption Price, but does not need to include the Redemption Price itself. The actual Redemption Price, calculated as described above, must be set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company delivered to the Trustee no later than two Business Days prior to the redemption date.
 
6. [In the event that, for any reason, (i) the proposed acquisition of The Astron Group Limited is not completed on or prior to September 30, 2005 (the "") or (ii) the Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of The Astron Group Limited, dated April 16, 2005 (the "") is terminated on or prior to the Deadline Date, the Company shall redeem (the "" all the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principle amount of the Notes on the Special Redemption Date, together with accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance to but excluding the Special Redemption Date.
Special Mandatory Redemption.
Deadline Date
Acquisition Agreement
Special Redemption
 
The "" means the earlier to occur of (a) October 31, 2005 and (b) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the Acquisition Agreement on or prior to the Deadline Date for any reason.
Special Redemption Date
 
Notice of the Special Redemption shall be mailed promptly after the occurrence of the event triggering the Special Redemption to each Holder at its registered address.]
3
 
7. . The Trustee will select Notes called for redemption on a basis or on as nearly a basis as is practicable (subject to procedures of the Depository); that no Notes of $1,000 or less shall be redeemed in part. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note. Notes called for redemption pursuant to this paragraph 7 hereto become due on the date fixed for redemption. On and after the Redemption Date, interest stops accruing on Notes or portions of them called for redemption.
Redemption Procedures
pro rata
pro
rata
provided
 
8. . Notices of redemption shall be mailed by first class mail at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the
Notice of Redemption
 
notice of redemption that relates to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
9. [. Pursuant to a registration rights agreement among the Company and the initial purchasers named therein (the ""), the Company will be obligated to consummate an exchange offer (the "") pursuant to which the Holder of this Note shall have the right to exchange this Note for Notes which have been registered under the Securities Act, in like principal amount and having substantially identical terms as the Notes.]
Registration Rights
Registration Rights Agreement
Exchange Offer
4
 
10. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay to it any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
11. . The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
12. . If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its written request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an "abandoned property" law designates another Person.
Unclaimed Money
 
13. . The Company and the Trustee (if a party thereto) may, without the consent of the Holders of any outstanding Notes, amend, waive or supplement the Indenture or the Notes for certain specified purposes, including, among other things, curing ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies, maintaining the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, providing for the assumption by a successor to the Company of its obligations under the Indenture and making any change that does not materially and adversely affect the rights of any Holder. Other amendments and modifications of the Indenture or the Notes may be made by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes, subject to certain exceptions requiring the consent of the Holders of the particular Notes to be affected.
Amendment, Supplement, Waiver, Etc
 
14. . When a successor corporation assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Notes and the Indenture and the transaction complies
Successor Corporation
 
with the terms of Article Five of the Indenture, the predecessor corporation will, except as provided in Article Five, be released from those obligations.
 
15. . Events of Default are set forth in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5) of the Indenture) occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, either the Trustee, by notice in writing to the Company, or the Holders of not less than 25% of the principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company and the Trustee, may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare due and payable, if not already due and payable, the principal of and any accrued and unpaid interest on all of the Notes; and upon any such declaration all such amounts upon such Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable, anything in the Indenture or in the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5) of the Indenture occurs, then the principal of and any accrued and unpaid interest on all of the Notes shall immediately become due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes or a default in the observance or performance of any of the obligations of the Company under Article Five of the Indenture) if it determines that withholding notice is in their best interests.
Defaults and Remedies
 
16. . Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
 
17. . No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, agent, member or stockholder or Affiliate of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liabilities. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
 
18. . The Company's obligations pursuant to the Indenture will be discharged, except for obligations pursuant to certain sections thereof, subject to the terms of the Indenture, upon the payment of all the Notes or upon the irrevocable deposit with the Trustee of United States dollars or Government Obligations sufficient to pay when due principal of and interest on the Notes to maturity or redemption, as the case may be.
Discharge
 
19. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Note.
Authentication
 
20. . THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Trustee and the Company agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Indenture or the Notes.
Governing Law
 
21. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TENANT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
 
If to the Company prior to June 1, 2005:
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
77 West Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60601
Attn: General Counsel
Fax: (312) 326-8594
 
If to the Company on or after June 1, 2005:
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
111 South Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attn: General Counsel
Fax: (312) 326-8594
 
With a copy to:
 
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP
125 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
Attn: Robert W. Downes
Tel: (212) 558-4000
Fax: (212) 558-3588
 
 
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
Agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The Agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE NEXT SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE HOLDER:
 
(1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) (A "QIB") OR (B) IT IS ACQUIRING THIS NOTE IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
(2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE EXCEPT (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (B) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QIB IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (C) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY), OR (F) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION; AND
 
(3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS NOTE OR AN INTEREST HEREIN IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND.
 
AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION" AND "UNITED STATES" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY RULE 902 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE CONTAINS A PROVISION REQUIRING THE TRUSTEE TO REFUSE TO REGISTER ANY TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN VIOLATION OF THE FOREGOING.
 
 
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
Agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The Agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
(a) this Note is being transferred in compliance with the exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Rule 144A thereunder.
 
or
 
(b) this Note is being transferred other than in accordance with (a) above and documents are being furnished which comply with the conditions of transfer set forth in this Note and the Indenture.
 
If none of the foregoing boxes is checked, the Trustee or Registrar shall not be obligated to register this Note in the name of any person other than the Holder hereof unless and until the conditions to any such transfer of registration set forth herein and in Sections 2.16 and 2.17 of the Indenture shall have been satisfied.
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
The transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, and, accordingly, the transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or certificated Note is being transferred to a Person that the transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or certificated Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such transfer is in compliance with any applicable securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or certificated Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated on the Rule 144A Notes and/or the certificated Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
This Note has not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), and, unless so registered, may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. Persons unless registered under the Act or except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Act.
 
THIS NOTE (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE U.S. SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND, ACCORDINGLY, MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO, OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF, U.S. PERSONS, EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THE NEXT SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE HOLDER:
 
(1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) (A "QIB") OR (B) IT IS ACQUIRING THIS NOTE IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 
(2) AGREES THAT IT WILL NOT RESELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS NOTE EXCEPT (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (B) TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QIB PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QIB IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (C) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (E) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL ACCEPTABLE TO THE COMPANY), OR (F) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION; AND
 
(3) AGREES THAT IT WILL DELIVER TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS NOTE OR AN INTEREST HEREIN IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND.
 
AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS "OFFSHORE TRANSACTION" AND "UNITED STATES" HAVE THE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY RULE 902 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT. THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE CONTAINS A PROVISION REQUIRING THE TRUSTEE TO REFUSE TO REGISTER ANY TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN VIOLATION OF THE FOREGOING.
 
 
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
Agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The Agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
(a) this Note is being transferred in compliance with the exemption from registration under the Securities Act provided by Regulation S thereunder.
 
or
 
(b) this Note is being transferred other than in accordance with (a) above and documents are being furnished which comply with the conditions of transfer set forth in this Note and the Indenture.
 
If none of the foregoing boxes is checked, the Trustee or Registrar shall not be obligated to register this Note in the name of any person other than the Holder hereof unless and until the conditions to any such transfer of registration set forth herein and in Sections 2.16 and 2.17 of the Indenture shall have been satisfied.
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
The transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the transferor hereby further certifies that (i) the transfer is not being made to a person in the United States and (x) at the time the buy order was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or such transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the transferee was outside the United States or (y) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, (ii) no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (iii) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and (iv) if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the restricted period under Regulation S, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an initial purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or certificated Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated on the Regulation S Notes and/or the certificated Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
Any Global Note authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend (which would be in addition to any other legends required in the case of a Restricted Note) in substantially the following form:
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE OF A DEPOSITORY. THIS NOTE IS NOT EXCHANGEABLE FOR NOTES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY TO THE DEPOSITORY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY) MAY BE REGISTERED EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (A NEW YORK CORPORATION) ("DTC") TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
EXHIBIT E
 
 
LaSalle Bank National Association
135 South LaSalle Street, Suite 1960
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
 
Dear Sirs:
 
In connection with our proposed sale of $[            ] aggregate principal amount of the Notes, we confirm that such sale has been effected pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation S under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and, accordingly, we represent that:
 
(1) the offer of the Notes was not made to a U.S. person or to a person in the United States;
 
(2) either (a) at the time the buy offer was originated, the transferee was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the transferee was outside the United States, or (b) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated off-shore securities market and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction has been pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States;
 
(3) no directed selling efforts have been made in the United States in contravention of the requirements of Rule 904(a) of Regulation S;
 
(4) the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; and
 
(5) we have advised the transferee of the transfer restrictions applicable to the Notes.
 
You are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby. Terms used in this certificate have the meanings set forth in Regulation S.
 
 
EXHIBIT F
 
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company
77 West Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60601
 
LaSalle Bank National Association
135 South LaSalle Street, Suite 1960
Chicago, Illinois 60603
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of May 23, 2005 (the ""), between R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company, as issuer (the ""), and LaSalle Bank National Association, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Company
 
In connection with our proposed purchase of $[            ] aggregate principal amount of:
 
 
 
we confirm that:
 
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
 
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, prior to the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales of the Notes under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act, we will do so only (A) to the Company or any subsidiary thereof, (B) in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein),
 
(C) to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Company a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter and, if such transfer is in respect of a principal amount of Notes, at the time of transfer of less than $250,000, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Company to the effect that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act, (D) outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of Regulation S under the Securities Act, (E) pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or (F) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
 
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Company such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Company may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect. We further understand that any subsequent transfer by us of the Notes or beneficial interest therein acquired by us must be effected through one of the Placement Agents.
 
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
 
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "accredited investor") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
 
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 
 
Dated: ,
                        
        
 

 
 
 
 
New York, New York
May 23, 2005
 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Banc of America Securities LLC
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
As Representatives of the several Initial
Purchasers named in Schedule I hereto
c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10013
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware (the ""), proposes, among other things, to issue and sell to the several initial purchasers named in hereto (the ""), for whom you are acting as representatives (the ""), $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.95% notes due 2010 (the "") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.50% notes due 2015 (the "," and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "") upon the terms set forth in a purchase agreement dated May 18, 2005 (the "") relating to the initial placement of the Securities (the ""). To induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and to satisfy a condition of your obligations thereunder, the Company hereby agrees with you for your benefit and the benefit of the registered holders from time to time of Securities and Exchange Securities (as defined below) (including the Initial Purchasers) (each a "" and, together, the "" for as long as such Person holds Securities), as follows:
Company
Schedule I
Initial Purchasers
Representatives
2010 Notes
2015 Notes
Securities
Purchase Agreement
Initial Placement
Holder
Holders
 
1. . Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following defined terms shall have the following respective meanings:
Definitions
 
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
 
"" of or Person "affiliated" with, any specified Person shall mean any Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled
Affiliate
 
by, or is under common control with, such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control" of a Person shall mean the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled by" and "under common control with" shall have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
"" shall mean any broker or dealer registered as such under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer
 
"" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City.
Business Day
 
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Company
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(s) hereof.
Conduct Rules
 
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean the up to 180-day period following the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer, exclusive of any period during which any stop order shall be in effect suspending the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
Exchange Offer Registration Period
 
"" shall mean a registration statement of the Company on an appropriate form under the Act with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer, all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments thereto, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
"" shall mean debt securities of the Company identical in all material respects to the Securities (except that the liquidated damages provisions, the transfer restrictions and the restrictive legends shall be modified or eliminated, as appropriate) and to be issued under the Indenture.
Exchange Securities
 
"" shall mean any Holder (which may include any Initial Purchaser) that is a Broker-Dealer and elects to exchange any Securities that it acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (but not directly from the Company or any Affiliate of the Company) for Exchange Securities.
Exchanging Dealer
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Final Memorandum
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Holder(s)
 
"" shall mean the Indenture relating to the Securities, to be dated as of the original issuance of the Securities, between the Company and the Trustee, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Initial Placement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchasers
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Losses
 
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Securities and Exchange Securities, as the case may be, registered under a Registration Statement.
Majority Holders
 
"" shall mean the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that shall administer an underwritten offering.
Managing Underwriters
 
"" shall mean an individual, trustee, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, union, business association, firm or other legal entity.
Person
 
"" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, a prospectus that discloses information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A under the Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Securities or the Exchange Securities covered by such Registration Statement, and all amendments and supplements thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Purchase Agreement
 
"" shall mean the proposed offer of the Company to issue and deliver to the Holders of the Securities that are not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in such offer a like aggregate principal amount of Exchange Securities in exchange for the Securities.
Registered Exchange Offer
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(c).
Registration Default
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(c).
Registration Default Period
 
"" shall mean any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement that covers any of the Securities or the Exchange Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, any amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments (in each case including the Prospectus contained therein), all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Representatives
 
"" shall mean the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Securities
 
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
Shelf Registration
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b)(ii) hereof.
Shelf Registration Period
 
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 3 hereof which covers some or all of the Securities or Exchange Securities, as applicable, on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the Commission, amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
 
"" shall mean any Person deemed an "underwriter," under the Act, of Securities or Exchange Securities in connection with an offering thereof under a Shelf Registration Statement.
underwriter
 
. (a) The Company shall prepare and, not later than 180 days following the date of the original issuance of the Securities (the "") (or if such 180 day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), shall file with the Commission the Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to the Registered Exchange Offer. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Act within 240 days of the Issue Date (or if such 240th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day).
2.
Registered Exchange Offer
Issue Date
 
(b) Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder electing to exchange Securities for
 
Exchange Securities (assuming that such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company, acquires the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business, is not engaged in and does not intend to engage in and has no arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Exchange Securities, is not a broker-dealer tendering Securities directly acquired from the Company for its own account and is not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer) to trade such Exchange Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Act and under state securities or blue sky laws.
 
(c) In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
(i) mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
 
(ii) keep the Registered Exchange Offer open for not less than 30 days after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or longer if required by applicable law);
 
(iii) if the Company receives notice from an Exchanging Dealer that such Exchanging Dealer holds Securities acquired for the account of such Exchanging Dealer as a result of market making or other trading activities, use their respective reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective under the Act, supplemented and amended as required under the Act to ensure that it is available for sales of Exchange Securities by Exchanging Dealers during the Exchange Offer Registration Period;
 
(iv) utilize the services of a depositary for the Registered Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan in New York City, which may be the Trustee or an Affiliate of the Trustee;
 
(v) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York City time, on the last Business Day on which the Registered Exchange Offer is open by sending to the entity specified in the Prospectus, a facsimile or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of the Securities delivered for exchange and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such Holder's election to have such Securities exchanged;
 
(vi) prior to effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, if requested, provide a supplemental letter to the Commission (A) stating that the Company is conducting the Registered Exchange Offer in reliance on the position of the Commission in Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (pub. avail. May 13, 1988) and Morgan Stanley and Co. Incorporated (pub. avail. June 5, 1991); and (B) including a
 
representation that the Company has not entered into any arrangement or understanding with any Person to distribute the Exchange Securities to be received in the Registered Exchange Offer and that, to the best of the Company's information and belief, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer is acquiring the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of business and has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Exchange Securities; and
 
(vii) comply in all respects with all applicable laws relating to the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
(d) Promptly after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
(i) accept for exchange all Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and letter of transmittal, which shall be an exhibit thereto;
 
(ii) deliver to the Trustee for cancellation in accordance with Section 4(q) hereof all Securities so accepted for exchange; and
 
(iii) cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver to each Holder of Securities a principal amount of Exchange Securities equal to the principal amount of the Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
(e) Each Holder, by tendering Securities for exchange for Exchange Securities, acknowledges and agrees that any Broker-Dealer and any such Holder using the Registered Exchange Offer to participate in a distribution of the Exchange Securities (x) could not under Commission policy as in effect on the date of this Agreement rely on the position of the Commission in Morgan Stanley and Co. Incorporated (pub. avail. June 5, 1991) and Exxon Capital Holdings Corporation (pub. avail. May 13, 1988), as interpreted in Shearman & Sterling (pub. avail. July 2, 1993) and similar no-action letters; and (y) must comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Act in connection with any secondary resale transaction and must be covered by an effective registration statement containing the selling security holder information required by Item 507 and 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, under the Act if the resales are of Exchange Securities obtained by such Holder in exchange for Securities acquired by such Holder directly from the Company or one of its Affiliates. Accordingly, each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent to the Company that, at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer:
 
(i) any Exchange Securities received by such Holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of business;
 
(ii) such Holder will have no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution of the Securities or the Exchange Securities within the meaning of the Act; and
 
(iii) such Holder is not an Affiliate of the Company.
 
(f) If any Initial Purchaser determines that it is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer with respect to the exchange of Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, at the request of such Initial Purchaser, the Company shall issue and deliver to such Initial Purchaser or the Person purchasing Exchange Securities registered under a Shelf Registration Statement as contemplated by Section 3 hereof from such Initial Purchaser, in exchange for such Securities, a like principal amount of Exchange Securities. The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the CUSIP Service Bureau to issue the same CUSIP number for such Exchange Securities as for Exchange Securities issued pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
3. . (a) If (i) due to any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Commission's staff, the Company determines upon advice of its outside counsel that it is not permitted to effect the Registered Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2 hereof; (ii) for any other reason the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective within 240 days, or the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 280 days, after the Issue Date; or (iii) prior to the 20th day following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer (A) any Initial Purchaser so requests with respect to Securities that are not eligible to be exchanged for Exchange Securities in the Registered Exchange Offer and that are held by it following consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer; (B) any Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer; or (C) in the case of any Initial Purchaser that participates in the Registered Exchange Offer or acquires Exchange Securities pursuant to Section 2(f) hereof, such Initial Purchaser does not receive freely tradeable Exchange Securities in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment (it being understood that (x) the requirement that an Initial Purchaser deliver a Prospectus containing the information required by Item 507 and 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, under the Act in connection with sales of Exchange Securities acquired in exchange for such Securities shall result in such Exchange Securities being not "freely tradeable"; and (y) the requirement that an Exchanging Dealer deliver a Prospectus in connection with sales of Exchange Securities acquired in the Registered Exchange Offer in exchange for Securities acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities shall not result in such Exchange Securities being not "freely tradeable"), the Company shall effect a Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with Section 3(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
 
(b) (i) The Company shall as promptly as reasonably practicable (but in no event more than 120 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 3), file with the Commission, and thereafter shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared
 
effective under the Act (within 180 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 3), a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Securities or the Exchange Securities, as applicable, by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by a majority of such Holders and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; , , that nothing in this Section 3(b) shall require the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement prior to the deadline for filing the Exchange Offer Registration Statement set forth in Section 2(a); , , that no Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) shall be entitled to have the Securities held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all of the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder; and , , that with respect to Exchange Securities received by an Initial Purchaser in exchange for Securities constituting any portion of an unsold allotment, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the Commission's staff, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Item 507 and 508 of Regulation S-K, as applicable, in satisfaction of their obligations under this subsection with respect thereto, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement.
provided
however
provided
further
provided
further
 
(ii) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the Act, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the original issuance date of the Securities or such shorter period that will terminate when all the Securities or Exchange Securities, as applicable, covered by the Shelf Registration Statement have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement or cease to be outstanding (in any such case, such period being called the "").
Shelf Registration Period
 
(c) In the event that:
 
(i) within 180 days after the Issue Date, neither the Exchange Offer Registration Statement nor the Shelf Registration Statement has been filed with the Commission;
 
(ii) within 240 days after the Issue Date, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has not been declared effective;
 
(iii) within 280 days after the Issue Date, neither the Exchange Offer has been consummated nor the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective; or
 
(iv) after either the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement has been declared effective, such Registration Statement thereafter
 
ceases to be effective or usable in connection with resales of Securities or Exchange Securities in accordance with and during the periods specified in this Agreement,
 
(each such event a "" and each period during which a Registration Default has occurred and is continuing, a ""), then, as liquidated damages for such Registration Default, additional interest will accrue on the aggregate principal amount of the Securities and Exchange Securities (in addition to the stated interest on the Securities and Exchange Securities) ("") from and including the date on which any such Registration Default has occurred to but excluding the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured. Additional Interest will accrue at an initial rate of 0.25% per annum, which rate shall increase by 0.25% per annum for each subsequent 90-day period during which such Registration Default continues up to a maximum of 0.50% per annum.
Registration Default
Registration Default Period
Additional Interest
 
4. . In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the following provisions shall apply:
Additional Registration Procedures
 
(a) the Company shall:
 
(i) furnish to each of you or your counsel, not less than three Business Days prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, and each amendment thereto and each amendment or supplement, if any, to the Prospectus included therein (and upon written request, all documents incorporated by reference therein after the initial filing) and shall use their reasonable best efforts to reflect in each such document, when so filed with the Commission, such comments as you reasonably propose within a reasonable time prior to such filing;
 
(ii) in the case of an Exchange Offer Registration Statement, to the extent permitted by the Act, include the information in substantially the form set forth in hereto on the facing page of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, in substantially the form set forth in hereto in the forepart of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in a section setting forth details of the Exchange Offer, in substantially the form set forth in hereto in the underwriting or plan of distribution section of the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, and in substantially the form set forth in hereto in the letter of transmittal delivered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer; and
Annex A
Annex B
Annex C
Annex D
 
(iii) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, include the names of the Holders that propose to sell Securities or Exchange Securities pursuant
 
to the Shelf Registration Statement as selling security holders and the applicable information required by Item 507 of Regulation S-K as provided by the Holders.
 
(b) The Company shall advise you, the Holders of Securities or Exchange Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement and any Exchanging Dealer under any Exchange Offer Registration Statement that has provided in writing to the Company a telephone or facsimile number and address for notices, and, if requested by you or any such Holder or Exchanging Dealer, shall confirm such advice in writing (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the Prospectus until the Company shall have remedied the basis for such suspension):
 
(i) when a Registration Statement or any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
 
(ii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or for additional information;
 
(iii) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose;
 
(iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the securities included therein for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose; and
 
(v) of the happening of any event that requires any change in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus so that, as of such date, the statements therein are not misleading and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading; that such notice need not identify the reasons for such event that requires such change in the Registration Statement.
provided
 
(c) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of any Registration Statement or the qualification of the securities therein for sale in any jurisdiction at the earliest possible time.
 
(d) The Company shall furnish to each Holder of Securities or Exchange Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, at least one copy of such Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including, upon written request, all material incorporated therein by reference and exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
 
(e) The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, deliver to each Holder of Securities or Exchange Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) included in such Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Holder may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of securities in connection with the offering and sale of the securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
(f) The Company shall furnish to each Exchanging Dealer which so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including, upon written request, all material incorporated by reference therein, and all exhibits thereto (including exhibits incorporated by reference therein).
 
(g) The Company shall promptly deliver to each Initial Purchaser, each Exchanging Dealer and each other Person required to deliver a Prospectus during the Exchange Offer Registration Period, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as any such Person may reasonably request. The Company consents to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by any Initial Purchaser, any Exchanging Dealer and any such other Person that may be required to deliver a Prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the Exchange Securities covered by the Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
(h) Prior to the Registered Exchange Offer or any other offering of Securities or Exchange Securities pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall arrange, if necessary, for the qualification of the Securities or the Exchange Securities for sale under the laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder shall reasonably request and will maintain such qualification in effect so long as required; that in no event shall the Company be obligated to qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or to take any action that would subject it to taxation or service of process in suits, other than those arising out of the Initial Placement, the Registered Exchange Offer or any offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
 
(i) The Company shall cooperate with the Holders to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Exchange Securities or Securities to be issued or sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as Holders may request.
 
(j) Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by subsections (b)(ii) through (v) above, the Company shall promptly prepare a post-effective amendment to the applicable Registration Statement or an amendment or supplement to the related Prospectus or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to Initial Purchasers, the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. In such circumstances, the period of effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement provided for in Section 2 hereof and the Shelf Registration Statement provided for in Section 3(b) hereof shall each be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of a notice of suspension pursuant to Section 4(b) hereof to and including the date when the Initial Purchasers, the Holders and any known Exchanging Dealer shall have received such amended or supplemented Prospectus pursuant to this Section 4; that in no event shall the Company be required to maintain the effectiveness of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement or Shelf Registration Statement beyond the second anniversary of the original issue date of the Securities. As soon as practicable following receipt of notice from the Company in accordance with Section 4(b) hereof, each Holder and Exchange Dealer agrees to suspend use of the Prospectus until such Holder and Exchange Dealer receive copies of the amended or supplemented Prospectus or until it receives written notice from the Company that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed.
provided
 
(k) Not later than the effective date of any Registration Statement, the Company shall provide a CUSIP number for the Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, registered under such Registration Statement and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for such Securities or Exchange Securities, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
 
(l) The Company shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and make generally available to its security holders as soon as practicable after the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act.
 
(m) The Company shall cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act in a timely manner.
 
(n) The Company may require each Holder of securities to be sold pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding
 
the Holder and the distribution of such securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The Company may exclude from such Shelf Registration Statement the Securities or Exchange Securities of any Holder that unreasonably fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
 
(o) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall enter into such and take all other appropriate actions (including if requested an underwriting agreement in customary form) in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of the Securities or Exchange Securities, and in connection therewith, if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable than those set forth in Section 6 (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to the Majority Holders and the Managing Underwriters, if any, with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to Section 6).
 
(p) In the case of any Shelf Registration Statement, the Company shall:
 
(i) make reasonably available for inspection by the Holders of Securities or Exchange Securities to be registered thereunder, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement, and any attorney retained by the Holders or any such underwriter all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company during normal business hours at the offices where such information is typically kept;
 
(ii) cause the officers, directors and employees of the Company to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the Holders or any such underwriter or attorney in connection with any such Shelf Registration Statement as is customary for similar due diligence examinations during normal business hours at the offices where such information is typically kept; , , that any confidential information referred to in Section 4(p)(i) above or this Section 4(p)(ii) shall be kept confidential by the Holders or any such underwriter or attorney, unless such disclosure is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, or such information becomes available to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality; , , that prior written notice shall be provided as soon as practicable to the Company of the potential disclosure of any information in connection with a court proceeding or required by law to permit the Company to obtain a protective order or take such other action to prevent disclosure of such information;
provided
however
provided
further
 
(iii) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of Securities or Exchange Securities registered thereunder and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings and covering matters including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement as may be reasonably requested;
 
(iv) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Managing Underwriters, if any) addressed to each selling Holder (if then customary in underwritten offerings) and the underwriters, if any, covering such matters as are customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
 
(v) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the independent certified public accountants of the Company (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included in the Shelf Registration Statement), addressed to the underwriters, if any, in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings; and
 
(vi) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the Majority Holders and the Managing Underwriters, if any, including those to evidence compliance with Section 4(j) and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement or other customary agreement entered into by the Company.
 
The actions set forth in clauses (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) of this Section 4(p) shall be performed at each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder.
 
(q) If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the Exchange Securities, the Company shall mark, or caused to be marked, on the Securities so exchanged that such Securities are being canceled in exchange for the Exchange Securities. In no event shall the Securities be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
 
(r) The Company will use its reasonable best efforts (i) if the Securities have been rated prior to the initial sale of such Securities pursuant to the Purchase
 
Agreement, to confirm such ratings will apply to the Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Exchange Offer Registration Statement; or (ii) if the Securities were not previously rated, to cause the Securities covered by a Registration Statement to be rated with at least one nationally recognized statistical rating agency, if so requested by Majority Holders with respect to the related Registration Statement or by any Managing Underwriters.
 
(s) In the event that any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Securities or Exchange Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the Conduct Rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "")) thereof, whether as a Holder or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company shall assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the requirements of such Conduct Rules, including, without limitation, by:
Conduct Rules
 
(i) if such Conduct Rules shall so require, engaging a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in such Rules) to participate in the preparation of the Registration Statement, to exercise usual standards of due diligence with respect thereto and, if any portion of the offering contemplated by such Registration Statement is an underwritten offering or is made through a placement or sales agent, to recommend the yield of such Securities or Exchange Securities;
 
(ii) indemnifying any such qualified independent underwriter to the extent of the indemnification of underwriters provided in Section 6 hereof; and
 
(iii) providing such information to such Broker-Dealer as may be required in order for such Broker-Dealer to comply with the requirements of such Conduct Rules.
 
(t) The Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, covered by a Registration Statement.
 
5. . The Company shall bear all expenses incurred in connection with the performance of their obligations under Sections 2, 3 and 4 hereof, and, in the event of any Shelf Registration Statement, will reimburse the Holders for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm or counsel designated by the Majority Holders to act as counsel for the Holders in connection therewith and, in the case of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, will reimburse the Initial Purchasers for the reasonable fees and disbursements of such one firm or counsel acting in connection therewith.
Registration Expenses
 
6. . (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Securities or Exchange Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Registration Statement (including each Initial Purchaser and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 4(f) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer), the directors, officers, employees and agents of each such Holder and each Person who controls any such Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which they or any of them may become subject under the Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal, state or foreign statutory law or regulation, at common law or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement as originally filed or in any amendment thereof, or in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus, or in any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or in any "wrapped" version thereof constituting an offering memorandum under applicable Canadian securities laws, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and jointly and severally agree to reimburse each such indemnified party, as incurred, for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; , , that the Company will not be liable in any case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by or on behalf of any such Holder relating to such Holder specifically for inclusion therein. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification and Contribution
provided
however
 
The Company also agrees to indemnify or contribute as provided in Section 6(d) to Losses of each underwriter of Securities or Exchange Securities, as the case may be, registered under a Shelf Registration Statement, their directors, officers, employees or agents and each Person who controls such underwriter on substantially the same basis as that of the indemnification of the Initial Purchasers and the selling Holders provided in this Section 6(a) and shall, if requested by any Holder, enter into an underwriting agreement reflecting such agreement, as provided in Section 4(n) hereof.
 
(b) Each Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement (including each Initial Purchaser and, with respect to any Prospectus delivery as contemplated in Section 4(f) hereof, each Exchanging Dealer) severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors and each of its officers who signs such Registration Statement, and each Person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each such Holder, but only with reference to written information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion in the documents referred to in
 
the foregoing indemnity. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which any such Holder may otherwise have.
 
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 6 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 6, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof; but the failure so to notify the indemnifying party (i) will not relieve it from liability under paragraph (a) or (b) above unless and to the extent it did not otherwise learn of such action and such failure results in the forfeiture by the indemnifying party of substantial rights and defenses; and (ii) will not, in any event, relieve the indemnifying party from any obligations to any indemnified party other than the indemnification obligation provided in paragraph (a) or (b) above. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); , , that such counsel shall be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ one firm of separate counsel (including one local counsel firm), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with an actual conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded, based upon the advice of counsel, that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. It is understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of only one firm of attorneys (in addition to local counsel) at any time for all such indemnified parties. An indemnifying party will not, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any pending or threatened claim, action, suit or proceeding in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties to such claim or action) unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such claim, action, suit or proceeding.
provided
however
 
(d) In the event that the indemnity provided in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party for any reason, then each applicable indemnifying party shall have a joint and several obligation to contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating or defending same) (collectively "") to which such indemnified party may be subject in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, from the Initial Placement and the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses; , , that in no case shall any Initial Purchaser or any subsequent Holder of any Security or Exchange Security be responsible, in the aggregate, for any amount in excess of the purchase discount or commission applicable to such Security, or in the case of a Exchange Security, applicable to the Security that was exchangeable into such Exchange Security, as set forth on the cover page of the Final Memorandum, nor shall any underwriter be responsible for any amount in excess of the underwriting discount or commission applicable to the securities purchased by such underwriter under the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. If the allocation provided by the immediately preceding sentence is unavailable for any reason, the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall contribute in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only such relative benefits but also the relative fault of such indemnifying party, on the one hand, and such indemnified party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such Losses as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. Benefits received by the Company shall be deemed to be equal to the total net proceeds from the Initial Placement (before deducting expenses) as set forth on the cover page of the Final Memorandum. Benefits received by the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be equal to the total purchase discounts and commissions as set forth on the cover page of the Final Memorandum and benefits received by any other Holders shall be deemed to be equal to the value of receiving Securities or Exchange Securities, as applicable, registered under the Act. Benefits received by any underwriter shall be deemed to be equal to the total underwriting discounts and commissions, as set forth on the cover page of the Prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement which resulted in such Losses. Relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any alleged untrue statement or omission relates to information provided by the indemnifying party, on the one hand, or by the indemnified party, on the other hand, the intent of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Holders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (d), no Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 6, each Person who controls a Holder within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act and each director, officer, employee and agent of such Holder shall have the same rights to contribution as such
Losses
provided
however
 
Holder, and each Person who controls the Company within the meaning of either the Act or the Exchange Act, each officer of the Company who shall have signed the Registration Statement and each director of the Company shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company, subject in each case to the applicable terms and conditions of this paragraph (d).
 
(e) The provisions of this Section 6 will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or the Company or any of the officers, directors or controlling Persons referred to in this Section 6 hereof, and will survive the sale by a Holder of securities covered by a Registration Statement.
 
7. . (a) If any of the Securities or Exchange Securities, as the case may be, covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the Managing Underwriter(s) shall be selected by the Majority Holders and shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company.
Underwritten Registrations
 
(b) No Person may participate in any underwritten offering pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, unless such Person (i) agrees to sell such Person's Securities or Exchange Securities, as the case may be, on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements; and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
 
8. . The Company has not, as of the date hereof, entered into, nor shall it, on or after the date hereof, enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
9. . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, qualified, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders; that, with respect to any matter that directly or indirectly affects the rights of any Initial Purchaser hereunder, the Company shall obtain the written consent of each of the Initial Purchasers against which such amendment, qualification, supplement, waiver or consent is to be effective. Notwithstanding the foregoing (except the foregoing proviso), a waiver or consent to departure from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders whose Securities or Exchange Securities, as the case may be, are being sold pursuant to a Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders may be given by the Majority Holders, determined on the basis of Securities or Exchange Securities, as the case may be, being sold rather than registered under such Registration Statement.
Amendments and Waivers
provided
 
10. . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail, telex, telecopier or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery:
Notices
 
(a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such holder to the Company in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10, which address initially is, with respect to each Holder, the address of such Holder maintained by the Registrar under the Indentures, with a copy in like manner to Citigroup Global Markets Inc.;
 
(b) if to you, initially at the respective addresses set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and
 
(c) if to the Company, initially at its address set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given at the time delivered personally, if personally delivered; two Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to a nationally recognized air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
 
The Initial Purchasers or the Company by notice to the other parties may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
11. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto, including, without the need for an express assignment or any consent by the Company thereto, subsequent Holders of Securities and the Exchange Securities. The Company hereby agrees to extend the benefits of this Agreement to any Holder of Securities or the Exchange Securities, and any such Holder may specifically enforce the provisions of this Agreement as if an original party hereto.
Successors
 
12. . This Agreement may be in signed counterparts, each of which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
13. . The headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Headings
 
14. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of New York.
Applicable Law
 
15. . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstances, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions hereof shall not be in any way impaired or affected thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
16. . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of Securities or Exchange Securities is required hereunder, Securities or Exchange Securities, as applicable, held by any Company or its Affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities or Exchange Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be Affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities or Exchange Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Company, etc
 
17. . By the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Company submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any federal or state court in the State of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or brought under federal or state securities laws. By receiving the rights and benefits under this Agreement, each Holder also submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any federal or state court in the State of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or brought under federal or state securities laws.
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
18. . This Agreement shall automatically terminate if the Company completes a Special Mandatory Redemption (as defined in the Indenture).
Termination
 
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall represent a binding agreement among the Company and the several Initial Purchasers.
 
 
 
For themselves and the other several Initial Purchasers named in to the foregoing Agreement.
Schedule I
 
SCHEDULE I
 
Initial Purchasers:
 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Banc of America Securities LLC
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
ABN AMRO Incorporated
ING Financial Markets LLC
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
Mitsubishi Securities International plc
Piper Jaffray & Co.
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC
 
ANNEX A
 
Each Broker-Dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a Broker-Dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a Broker-Dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired by such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, starting on the Expiration Date (as defined herein) and ending on the close of business 180 days after the Expiration Date, it will make this Prospectus available to any Broker-Dealer for use in connection with any such resale. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
ANNEX B
 
Each Broker-Dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, where such Securities were acquired by such Broker-Dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. See "Plan of Distribution."
 
ANNEX C
 
 
Each Broker-Dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities. This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a Broker-Dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Securities where such Securities were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities. The Company has agreed that, starting on the Expiration Date and ending on the close of business 180 days after the Expiration Date, they will make this Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any Broker-Dealer for use in connection with any such resale. In addition, until , 200, all dealers effecting transactions in the Exchange Securities may be required to deliver a prospectus.
                    
    
 
The Company will not receive any proceeds from any sale of Exchange Securities by Broker-Dealers. Exchange Securities received by Broker-Dealers for their own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the Exchange Securities or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices. Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such Broker-Dealer and/or the purchasers of any such Exchange Securities. Any Broker-Dealer that resells Exchange Securities that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such Exchange Securities may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act and any profit of any such resale of Exchange Securities and any commissions or concessions received by any such Persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Act. The Letter of Transmittal states that by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a Broker-Dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
 
For a period of 180 days after the Expiration Date, the Company will promptly send additional copies of this Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this Prospectus to any Broker-Dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal. The Company has agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the holder of the Securities) other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the holders of the Securities (including any Broker-Dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Act.
 
ANNEX D
 
 
 
If the undersigned is not a Broker-Dealer, the undersigned represents that it acquired the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of its business, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Securities and it has no arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in a distribution of the Exchange Securities. If the undersigned is a Broker-Dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, it represents that the Securities to be exchanged for Exchange Securities were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Act.
 


