FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20070522171340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.01.    Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On May 17, 2007, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company, ("R.R. Donnelley") completed the purchase of all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Von Hoffmann Holdings Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Von Hoffmann") and wholly owned subsidiary of Visant Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Visant") pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement"), dated as of January 2, 2007, among R.R. Donnelley, Visant and, solely for certain purposes, Visant Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation (the "Transaction") for an aggregate purchase price of $412.5 million.
The foregoing description of the Transaction and the Stock Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Stock Purchase Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto, and is incorporated into this Current Report by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
2.1 Stock Purchase Agreement among R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company, Visant Corporation and Visant Holding Corp., dated as of January 2, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company's Current Report filed on Form 8-K filed on January 8, 2007)
99.1 Press Release issued by R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company on May 17, 2007
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Media Contacts: Doug Fitzgerald, Executive Vice President Marketing & Communications Tel: 630-322-6830 E-mail: doug.fitzgerald@rrd.com
Investor Contact: Dan Leib, Senior Vice President - Finance Tel: 312-326-7710 E-mail: dan.leib@rrd.com
Visant
John Sorensen, Vice President, Treasurer Tel: 914-595-8204 E-mail: john.sorensen@visant.net
 
RR Donnelley Completes Purchase Of Von Hoffmann
jointly announced today that RR Donnelley's previously announced purchase from Visant Corporation of Von Hoffmann, a
CHICAGO, IL and Armonk, NY - May 16, 2007 - R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (NYSE: RRD) and Visant Corporation
printer of books and other products that serves primarily the education, trade and business-to-business catalog segments, is complete. The $412.5 million acquisition agreement was announced on January 3, 2007.
About RR Donnelley
RR Donnelley (NYSE: RRD) is the world's premier full-service provider of print and related services, including business process outsourcing. Founded more than 140 years ago, the company provides solutions in commercial printing, direct mail, financial printing, print fulfillment, labels, forms, logistics, call centers, transactional print-and-mail, print management, online services, digital photography, color services, and content and database management to customers in the publishing, healthcare, advertising, retail, technology, financial services and many other industries. The largest companies in the world and others rely on RR Donnelley's scale, scope and insight through a comprehensive range of online tools, variable printing services and market-specific solutions. For more information, visit the company's web site at www.rrdonnelley.com.
About Visant
Visant Corporation is a leading marketing and publishing services enterprise servicing the school affinity, direct marketing, fragrance and cosmetics sampling and educational publishing markets. For more information on Visant, please visit the company's web site at www.visant.net.
Use of Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and any such forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following cautionary statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this news release and are based on current expectations and involve a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. Readers are strongly encouraged to read the full cautionary statements contained in RR Donnelley's filings with the SEC. RR Donnelley disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.


