FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20101217171143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (the "Company"), as borrower, has entered into a $1.75 billion revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), dated as of December 17, 2010, among the Company, the lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (the "Agent"). Citibank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association acted as syndication agents for the Credit Agreement and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC and Wells Fargo Securities LLC acted as joint lead arrangers and joint book runners for the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement expires December 17, 2013 (subject to a possible one-year extension if agreed to by the Lenders), at which time all outstanding amounts under the Credit Agreement will be due and payable. The Credit Agreement is available for borrowings by the Company if certain conditions precedent to each borrowing are met, including that (i) no event of default having occurred and being continuing and (ii) that the representations and warranties made in the Credit Agreement (other than the representation with respect to material adverse changes) are correct.
The Credit Agreement replaces the Company's previous credit agreement, dated as of January 8, 2007 among the Company, the banks party thereto and Bank of America, N.A. , as administrative agent (the "Existing Credit Agreement"). All amounts outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement were repaid with borrowings under the Credit Agreement.
At the Company's option, borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at a rate dependent on the Company's credit ratings at the time of such borrowing and will be calculated according to a base rate or a Eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin, as the case may be. The Company must pay interest on borrowings not less often than quarterly. In addition, the Company must pay facility commitment fees quarterly in arrears at rates dependent on the Company's credit ratings.
The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants for transactions of this type, including two financial covenants: (i) an interest coverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, that must be maintained at a level of not less than 3.0 to 1 and (ii) a leverage ratio, as defined in the Credit Agreement, that must be maintained at a level of not greater than 4.0 to 1.
The Credit Agreement provides for customary events of default that are subject, in certain cases, to customary grace periods, including failure to pay any principal or interest when due, failure to comply with covenants, any representation made by the Company proving to be incorrect, defaults relating to other indebtedness of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate, certain insolvency and receivership events affecting the Company or its subsidiaries, judgments in excess of $100,000,000 in the aggregate being rendered against the Company or its subsidiaries, the acquisition of 50% or more by any person of any outstanding class of capital stock having ordinary voting power in the election of directors of the Company, and the incurrence of certain ERISA liabilities.
In the event of a default by the Company, the Agent may, and at the direction of the requisite number of Lenders will, terminate the Lenders' commitments to make loans under the Credit Agreement, declare the obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable and enforce any and all rights of the Lenders or Agent under the Credit Agreement and related documents. For certain events of default related to insolvency and receivership, the commitments of the Lenders are automatically terminated and all outstanding obligations become immediately due and payable.
Certain of the lenders, agents and other parties to the Credit Agreement, and their affiliates, have in the past provided, and may in the future provide, investment banking, underwriting, lending, commercial banking and other advisory services to the company and its subsidiaries. Such lenders, agents and other parties have received, and may in the future receive, customary compensation from the Company and its subsidiaries for such services.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreement and related matters is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Published CUSIP Number: 74971KAC9
 
 
 
 
 
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT is entered into as of December 17, 2010 among R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders (defined herein) and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent and an L/C Issuer.
Company
The Company has requested that the Lenders provide $1,750,000,000 in credit facilities for the purposes set forth herein, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
1.01 .
Defined Terms
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"", by any Person, means the acquisition by such Person, in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions that is accounted for in the financial statements as an acquisition, of either (a) property or assets from another Person or (b) at least a majority of the Voting Stock of another Person, in each case whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person, in each case with a fair market value in excess of $50,000,000.
Acquisition
"" has the meaning specified in .
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 2.17(d)
"" means Bank of America, in its capacity as the contractual representative for all of the Lenders for purposes of this Agreement, as designated and appointed in accordance with , and any successor thereto as provided herein.
Administrative Agent
Article VIII
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 11.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning specified in .
Agent Parties
Section 11.02(c)
"" means the Revolving Commitments of all the Lenders. The initial amount of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments in effect on the Closing Date is $1,750,000,000.
Aggregate Revolving Commitments
"" shall mean this Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended, modified, supplemented and/or restated from time to time.
Agreement
"" means each of Euro, Sterling, Yen, Canadian dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Mexican pesos and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with .
Alternative Currency
Section 1.06
"" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the Equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and $500,000,000.The Alternative Currency Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.
Alternative Currency Sublimit
"" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Margin
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Company's non-credit- enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt (and as to which there are no guarantors or other obligors); provided that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest); (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply; (c) if the Company has only one Debt Rating, the Pricing Level that is one level lower than that of such Debt Rating shall apply and (d) if the Company does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 5 shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
Initially, the Applicable Margin shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to . Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Margin shall be effective on the effective date of the respective change in Debt Rating.
Section 5.01(a)(v)
 
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments represented by such Lender's Revolving Commitment at such time; that if the commitment of each Lender to make Revolving Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Revolving Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable. The Applicable Percentages shall be subject to adjustment as provided in .
Applicable Percentage
provided
Section 9.02
Schedule 2.01
Section 2.16
"" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning specified in .
Applicant Borrower
Section 2.14
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities LLC, in each case solely in the capacity as a joint lead arranger and joint book runner of the credit facilities provided under this Agreement.
Arrangers
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 11.06(b)
Exhibit 11.06(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
"" means, with respect to the Revolving Commitments, the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 9.02
"" means Bank of America, N.A., a national banking association, and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means that certain fee letter dated as of November 30, 2010 among Bank of America and the Company.
Bank of America Fee Letter
 
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate 0.50%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate" and (c) the Eurocurrency Rate 1.0%. The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such "prime rate" announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
plus
plus
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate. All Base Rate Loans shall be denominated in Dollars.
Base Rate Loan
"" and "" means the Company and the Designated Borrowers, if any.
Borrower
Borrowers
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Borrower Materials
Section 7.02
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type, in the same currency and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the laws of, or are in fact closed in, New York, New York and: (a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars or any Base Rate Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Loan, means any such day that is also a London Banking Day; (b) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day; (c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and (d) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
Business Day
"" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for L/C Obligations or obligations of Lenders to fund participations in respect of either thereof (as the context may require), cash or deposit account balances or, if the L/C Issuer benefitting from such collateral shall agree in its reasonable discretion, other credit support, in each case pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to (a) the Administrative Agent and (b) the L/C Issuer (as applicable). "Cash Collateral" shall have a meaning correlative to the foregoing and shall include the proceeds of such cash collateral and other credit support.
Cash Collateralize
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Closing Date
Section 5.01
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any federal body succeeding to its principal functions.
Commission
"" means, as to each Lender, the Revolving Commitment of such Lender.
Commitment
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.
Company
"" means the total Debt of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Debt
"" means, for any period, on a Pro Forma Basis, (a) Consolidated Net Income for such period, (b) to the extent deducted in computing such Consolidated Net Income for such period, the sum (without duplication) of (i) all income taxes of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries paid or accrued in accordance with GAAP, (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization in accordance with GAAP, (iv) any non-cash charges, accruals or reserves for extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring items, (v) non-cash restructuring charges and (vi) any non-cash compensation expense (c) to the extent added in computing Consolidated Net Income for such period, total interest income, as determined in accordance with GAAP, (d) the payment of cash, if any, when actually paid, with respect to any charge, accrual or reserve that was deducted in determining Consolidated Net Income in such period, but added back in any prior period pursuant to clause (b)(iv),(v) or (vi).
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
minus
minus
"" means, for any period, on a Pro Forma Basis (a) total interest expense of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period, as determined in accordance with GAAP, (b) without duplication, the consolidated interest, fees, yield or discount accrued during such period on the aggregate outstanding investment or claim held by purchasers, assignees or other transferees of (or of interests in) receivables of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries in connection with Securitization Transactions (regardless of the accounting treatment of such Securitization Transactions).
Consolidated Interest Expense
plus
"" means, for any period, the consolidated net earnings (or loss) after taxes of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for such period, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, at any date, any subsidiary the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the Company in its consolidated financial statements at such date in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Subsidiary
"" means, as of any date, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the par or stated value of the outstanding shares of all classes of capital stock of the Company, (ii) paid-in capital and capital surplus of the Company and (iii) retained earnings of the Company, as each would appear on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries prepared as of the last day of the most recently completed fiscal quarter in accordance with GAAP, less the aggregate net amount of (i) all assets so appearing which in accordance with GAAP are deemed intangible, such intangible assets to specifically include, but not be limited to, licenses, copyrights, trademarks, trade
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
 
names, patents and goodwill, and (ii) any write-up in the book value of assets made after December 31, 2009, other than any such write-up to an appraised fair market value in accordance with the purchase accounting requirements of GAAP.
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is legally bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" means (but without duplication of any item) (i) indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services other than (x) trade accounts payable on customary terms in the ordinary course of business and (y) financial obligations under management consulting contracts or noncompete agreements with unaffiliated Persons entered into in connection with the acquisition of the businesses of such Persons, (ii) obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) obligations as lessee under leases which shall have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (iv) the maximum amount available to be drawn under letters of credit (including standby and commercial); provided that letters of credit that are cash collateralized, up to a maximum aggregate amount of $50,000,000 at any one time, shall not be deemed Debt and (v) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to in clause (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above.
Debt
"" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Applicable Margin.
Debt Rating
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any condition or event which constitutes an Event of Default or which with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Margin applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Margin) otherwise applicable to such Loan 2% per annum, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Margin for Letter of Credit Fees 2% per annum to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
plus
plus
"" means, subject to , any Lender that, as determined by the Administrative Agent, (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Loans or participations in respect of Letters of Credit, within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, (b) has notified the Company or the Administrative Agent in writing that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or under other similar agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations hereunder, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i)
Defaulting Lender
Section 2.16(b)
 
become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority.
provided
"" means the Subsidiaries of the Company party hereto pursuant to .
Designated Borrower
Section 2.14
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Notice
Section 2.14
"" means all Obligations under the Loan Documents of Designated Borrowers.
Designated Borrower Obligations
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
Section 2.14
"" or "" by any Person, means the disposition by such Person, in a single transaction or in a series of related transactions, of either (a) all or any substantial portion of the property or assets of a Subsidiary, or a line of business or division, of such Person to another Person or (b) at least a majority of the Voting Stock of a Subsidiary of such Person to another Person, in each case whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person, in each case, with fair market value in excess of $50,000,000, but excluding any Involuntary Disposition.
Disposition
Dispose
"" and the sign "$" each mean the lawful currency of the United States.
Dollars
"" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the Equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any state of the United States of America.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under  and  (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under .
Eligible Assignee
Sections 11.06(b)(iii), (v)
(vi)
Section 11.06(b)(iii))
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.
EMU
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" means any administrative, regulatory or judicial action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of noncompliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, investigation, proceeding, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to
Environmental Action
 
the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief.
"" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial interpretation relating to the environment or Hazardous Materials.
Environmental Law
"" means any permit, approval, indemnification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
"" in Dollars of any Alternative Currency on any date means the equivalent in Dollars of such Alternative Currency determined by using the quoted spot rate at which Bank of America's principal office in London offers to exchange Dollars for such Alternative Currency in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and the "Equivalent" in any Alternative Currency of Dollars means the equivalent in such Alternative Currency of Dollars determined using the quoted spot rate at which Bank of America's principal office in London offers to exchange such foreign currency for Dollars in London prior to 4:00 P.M. (London time) on such date as is required pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Equivalent
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Internal Revenue Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Internal Revenue Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) the withdrawal of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which such entity was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, or the treatment of a Pension Plan amendment as a termination, under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, (e) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Pension Plan; (f) receipt of notice from the PBGC of its intent to take action under Section 4042 of ERISA to terminate or appoint a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan; (g) the determination that any Pension Plan is considered an at-risk plan or a plan in endangered or critical status within the meaning of Sections 430, 431 and 432 of the Internal Revenue Code or Sections 303, 304 and 305 of ERISA or (h) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
"" and/or "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
"" means:
Eurocurrency Base Rate
(a) for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as
BBA LIBOR
 
may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 12:00 noon, London time, two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 12:00 noon, London time, two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; and
(b) for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Loan on any date, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 12:00 noon, London time, two London Banking Days prior to such date for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Loan being made or maintained and with a term equal to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurocurrency market at their request at the date and time of determination.
"" means (a) for any Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Eurocurrency Base Rate for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan for such Interest Period by (ii) one the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan for such Interest Period and (b) for any day with respect to any Base Rate Loan the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Eurocurrency Base Rate for such Base Rate Loan for such day by (ii) one the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage for such Base Rate Loan for such day.
Eurocurrency Rate
minus
minus
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on clause (a) of definition of "Eurocurrency Rate."
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
"" means, for any day, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurocurrency Rate for each outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loan and for each outstanding Base Rate Loan the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage.
Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage
"" means any period during which the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans has been suspended pursuant to or .
Eurocurrency Unavailability Period
Section 3.02
Section 3.03
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Events of Default
Section 9.01
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes
Excluded Taxes
 
imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such Borrower is located, (c) any backup withholding tax that is required by the Internal Revenue Code to be withheld from amounts payable to a Lender that has failed to comply with clause (A) of and (d) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Company under ), any United States withholding tax that (i) is required to be imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender pursuant to the laws in force at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with clause (B) of , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from such Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to or .
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 11.13
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
Section 3.01(a)(ii)
(iii)
"" means the Letters of Credit on .
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 2.03
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Existing Maturity Date
Section 2.17(a)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Extending Lender
Section 2.17(e)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Extension Request
Section 2.17(a)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Facility Fee
Section 2.09
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; provided that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
"" means the Joint Fee Letter and the Bank of America Fee Letter.
Fee Letters
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Company is resident for tax purposes (including such a Lender when acting in the capacity of the L/C Issuer). For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, with respect to the L/C Issuer, such Defaulting Lender's Applicable Percentage of the outstanding L/C Obligations other than L/C Obligations as to which such Defaulting Lender's participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and such other principles as are approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
 
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Debt or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Debt or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Debt or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Debt or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Debt or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Debt or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Debt or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Debt or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Debt to obtain any such Lien). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
"" means the Company.
Guarantor
"" means the Guaranty made by the Company in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to .
Guaranty
Article IV
"" means petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, radon gas and any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as being "hazardous" or "toxic", or words of similar import, under any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment, decree or judicial interpretation.
Hazardous Materials
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Honor Date
Section 2.03(d)(i)
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Indemnitee
Section 11.04(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 11.07
"" means the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 together with all schedules and exhibits thereto, including those incorporated therein by reference, as filed with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Information Documents
 
"" means Debt of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under policies of life insurance now or hereafter owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under which policies the sole recourse for such borrowing is against such policies.
Insurance Policy Debt
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the most recent four-quarter period then ended to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense for the most recent four-quarter period then ended, in each case for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to or .
Interest Coverage Ratio
Section 7.02(a)
(b)
"" means (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan and ending on the date one week (with respect to Loans denominated in Dollars only), two weeks or one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Company in its Loan Notice (or such other period that is twelve months or less requested by the Company and consented to by the Lenders); that:
Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Internal Revenue Code
"" means any loss of, damage to or destruction of, or any condemnation or other taking for public use of, any property of any Borrower or any Subsidiary.
Involuntary Disposition
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by an L/C Issuer and the Company (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the applicable L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
"" means that certain fee letter dated as of November 30, 2010, among the Arrangers, Bank of America, Citibank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and the Company.
Joint Fee Letter
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage. All L/C Advances shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Advance
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Borrowing of Revolving Loans.
L/C Borrowing
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
"" means, with respect to a particular Letter of Credit, (a) Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder or (b) such other Lender selected by the Borrower (upon notice to the Administrative Agent) from time to time to issue such Letter of Credit (provided that no Lender shall be required to become an L/C Issuer pursuant to this subclause (b) without such Lender's consent), or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.09
"" means each of the Persons identified as a "Lender" on the signature pages hereto and each other Person that becomes a "Lender" in accordance with this Agreement and their successors and assigns.
Lenders
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder and shall include the Existing Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
"" means the day that is thirty days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.03(i)
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and (b) $100,000,000. The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Revolving Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Debt on such date to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the most recent four-quarter period then ended for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to or .
Leverage Ratio
Section 7.02(a)
(b)
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, claim, charge or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset.
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to a Borrower under in the form of a Revolving Loan, or, if applicable, an L/C Borrowing.
Loan
Article II
"" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, each Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement and the Fee Letters.
Loan Documents
"" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing of Revolving Loans, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, in each case pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit 2.02
"" means any day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
London Banking Day
"" has the meaning specified in Regulation U issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Margin Stock
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, financial condition, results of operations or properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (b) the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or the Notes, or (c) the ability of the Company to perform its material obligations under this Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means (a) any Designated Borrower and (b) any other Subsidiary of the Company which, at the time of determination, (i) shall own assets comprising in excess of 10% of all of the assets of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, or (ii) has operating income for the four fiscal quarters most recently ended in excess of 10% of the operating income of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; , that solely with respect to , in no event shall an SPV be deemed to be a Material Subsidiary.
Material Subsidiary
provided
Article V
"" means December 17, 2013 unless such date is extended pursuant to ; that if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
Section 2.17
provided,
however,
"" has the meaning specified in .
Maximum Rate
Section 11.09
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a Plan which has two or more contributing sponsors (including the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate) at least two of whom are not under common control, as such a plan is described in Section 4064 of ERISA.
Multiple Employer Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Non-Extending Lender
Section 2.17(b)
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Non-Extension Notice Date
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Note
Section 2.11(a)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Notice Date
Section 2.17(b)
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Borrower or the Guarantor arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Borrower or the Guarantor or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
"" means (a) with respect to any Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of any Loans occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Company of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.
Overnight Rate
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 11.06(d)
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and its successors and assigns.
PBGC
"" means the Pension Protection Act of 2006.
Pension Act
"" means the rules of the Internal Revenue Code and ERISA regarding minimum required contributions (including any installment payment thereof) to Pension Plans and set forth in, with respect to plan years ending prior to the effective date of the Pension Act, Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code and Section 302 of ERISA, each as in effect prior to the Pension Act and, thereafter, Section 412, 430, 431, 432 and 436 of the Internal Revenue Code and Sections 302, 303, 304 and 305 of ERISA.
Pension Funding Rules
 
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (including a Multiple Employer Plan or a Multiemployer Plan) that is maintained or is contributed to by the Company and any ERISA Affiliate and is either covered by Title IV of ERISA or is subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Pension Plan
"" means: (a) direct obligations of the United States of America, or of any agency of either thereof, or obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States of America or by any agency of either thereof, in either case maturing not more than 270 days from the date of acquisition thereof; (b) certificates of deposit issued or bankers' acceptances issued by any Lender or any other bank or trust company organized under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof and having capital, surplus and undivided profits of at least U.S.$500,000,000 (or equivalent amount in other currencies); (c) commercial paper rated A-1 or better or P-1, R-1 low or A-1 or better by S&P, Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited, respectively, or other recognized international rating agency approved by the Administrative Agent, maturing not more than 180 days from the date of acquisition thereof; (d) commercial paper rated A-2 or better (but less than A-1) or P-2 or better (but less than P-1) by S&P or Moody's Investors Services, Inc. respectively or a recognized international rating agency approved by the Administrative Agent, maturing not more than 30 days from the date of acquisition thereof; (e) money market funds which have a rating of "R 1 (low)" by Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited or "AAA m" or "AAA mg" by S&P or have otherwise been approved in writing by the Administrative Agent; and (f) any other investments approved in writing by the Administrative Agent.
Permitted Investments
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), limited liability company, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
"" means any employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA (including a Pension Plan), maintained for employees of the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or any such Plan to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is required to contribute on behalf of any of its employees.
Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Platform
Section 7.02
"" means, with respect to any transaction, that for purposes of calculating the financial covenants set forth in , such transaction shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day of the most recent four fiscal quarter period preceding the date of such transaction for which financial statements were required to be delivered pursuant to or . In connection with the foregoing, (a) with respect to any Disposition (i) income statement and cash flow statement items (whether positive or negative) attributable to the property disposed of shall be excluded to the extent relating to any period occurring prior to the date of such transaction and (ii) Debt which is retired shall be excluded and deemed to have been retired as of the first day of the applicable period and (b) with respect to any Acquisition, (i) income statement and cash flow statement items attributable to the Person or property acquired shall be included to the extent relating to any period applicable in such calculations to the extent (A) such items are not otherwise included in such income statement and cash flow statement items for the Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP and (B) such items are supported by financial statements or other information reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (it being agreed that (x) solely in connection with the acquisition of Bowne & Co., Inc. that such pro forma calculations include, in the Borrower's discretion, a reasonable estimate of savings resulting from such acquisition that have been realized or for which the steps necessary for realization have been taken in an amount not to exceed $60,000,000 in the aggregate) and (y) with respect to any other Acquisition, the Company may request, subject to the consent of the Required Lenders in their sole discretion, that such pro forma calculations include a reasonable estimate of savings resulting from such Acquisition that have
Pro Forma Basis
Section 8.04
Section 7.02(a)
(b)
 
been realized or for which the steps necessary for realization have been taken) and (ii) any Debt incurred or assumed by the Company or any Subsidiary (including the Person or property acquired) in connection with such transaction and any Debt of the Person or property acquired which is not retired in connection with such transaction (A) shall be deemed to have been incurred as of the first day of the applicable period and (B) if such Debt has a floating or formula rate, shall have an implied rate of interest for the applicable period for purposes of this definition determined by utilizing the rate which is or would be in effect with respect to such Debt as at the relevant date of determination.
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Public Lender
Section 7.02
"" means a payment owing to a Person (whether constituting an account, chattel paper, document, instrument or general intangible) arising from the provision of merchandise, goods or services by such Person, including the right to payment of any interest or finance charges and other obligations owing to such Person with respect thereto.
Receivables
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 11.06(c)
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisers of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means with respect to any Receivable: (a) all security interests or liens and property subject thereto from time to time securing or purporting to secure the payment of such Receivable by the Person obligated thereon, (b) all guaranties, indemnities and warranties, insurance policies, financing statements and other agreements or arrangements of whatever character from time to time supporting or securing payment of such Receivable, (c) all right, title and interest of the Company or any Material Subsidiary or any SPV in and to any goods (including returned, repossessed or foreclosed goods) the sale of which gave rise to such Receivable; , that Related Security will not include returned goods only to the extent that all amounts required to be paid pursuant to Securitization Transactions in respect of such goods have been paid, (d) all collections, and accounts into which such collections may be deposited, with respect to any of the foregoing, (e) all records with respect to any of the foregoing, and (f) all proceeds of such Receivable or with respect to any of the foregoing.
Related Security
provided
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the thirty-day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means, at any time, Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of (a) the unfunded Commitments and the outstanding Loans, L/C Obligations and participations therein or (b) if the Commitments have been terminated, the outstanding Loans, L/C Obligations and participations therein. The unfunded Commitments of, and the outstanding Loans, L/C Obligations and participations therein held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
"" means the Chief Financial Officer of a Borrower, the Treasurer of a Borrower, or any other officer of a Borrower responsible for overseeing or reviewing compliance with the Loan Documents.
Responsible Officer
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Revolving Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to and (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto or in any documentation executed by such Lender pursuant to , as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Revolving Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
Section 2.01(b)
 
"" has the meaning specified in .
Revolving Loan
Section 2.01(a)
"" means (a) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (b) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to , and (c) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require.
Revaluation Date
Section 2.02
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
"" means one or more transactions involving the securitization by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of Receivables and Related Security, including, without limitation, as a result of the sale or granting of a Lien on such Receivables and Related Security to an SPV or another Person and the contribution of Receivables and Related Security to an SPV; , that the amount of the obligations incurred under all such transactions by all such Persons that would be characterized as principal if structured as a secured lending transaction rather than as a purchase does not exceed $750,000,000 in the aggregate at any one time outstanding.
Securitization Transactions
provided
"" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.
Special Notice Currency
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, as applicable, to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 12:00 noon on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; that the Administrative Agent or such L/C Issuer may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent or such L/C Issuer if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency; and that such L/C Issuer may use such spot rate quoted on the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency.
Spot Rate
provided
provided
further
"" means a Subsidiary of the Company created for the sole purpose of purchasing Receivables from the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as part of a Securitization Transaction.
SPV
"" means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, association or other business entity (a) of which a majority of the shares of Voting Stock is at the time beneficially owned (b) having the ability to direct the management of such corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, association or other business entity or
Subsidiary
 
(c) is directly or indirectly owned or controlled (i) by such Person, (ii) by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or (iii) by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company.
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, the termination value thereof.
Swap Termination Value
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Revolving Outstandings
"" means, with respect to any Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan.
Type
"" means the United States of America.
United States
"" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.03(d)(i)
"" means the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)).
USA Patriot Act
"" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
Voting Stock
"" means the lawful currency of Japan.
Yen
 
1.02 .
Other Interpretive Provisions
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any organization document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "", "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" (except when used as accounting terms, in which case GAAP shall apply) shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
will
shall
hereto
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
(b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
1.03 .
Accounting Terms
(a) . Except as otherwise specifically prescribed herein, all accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the statements referenced in . Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining compliance with any covenant (including the computation of any financial covenant) contained herein, Debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be carried at 100% of the outstanding principal amount thereof, and the effects of FASB ASC 825 on financial liabilities shall be disregarded.
Generally
Section 6.01(e)
 
(b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Administrative Agent shall so request, the Administrative Agent and the Company shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP. Upon any agreement between the Company and the Administrative Agent as to any such amendment, the Administrative Agent shall provide the Lenders with prompt written notice of such amendment. Unless the Required Lenders shall have objected to such amendment within ten Business Days after the Lenders shall have been notified thereof by the Administrative Agent, such amendment shall become effective and shall be binding on all parties hereto; , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided that
1.04 .
Rounding
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.05 .
Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents
(a) The Administrative Agent shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies. Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation Date to occur. Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by the Company hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent.
(b) Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Borrowing or Eurocurrency Rate Loan, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent.
1.06 .
Additional Alternative Currencies
(a) The Company may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made and/or Letters of Credit be issued in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that would be obligated to make Credit Extensions denominated in such requested currency.
provided
(b) Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon, ten Business Days prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 12:00 noon, two Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its reasonable discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency.
 
(c) Any failure by a Lender to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made in such requested currency. If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders that would be obligated to make Credit Extensions denominated in such requested currency consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Company.
Section 1.06
1.07 .
Change of Currency
(a) Each obligation of the Borrowers to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; that if any Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
provided
(b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
(c) In connection with Alternative Currency, each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
1.08 .
Times of Day
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.09 .
Letter of Credit Amounts
Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
provided
however
 
2.01 .
Revolving Loans
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrowers in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Revolving Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Borrowing of Revolving Loans, (i) the Total Revolving Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations shall not exceed such Lender's Revolving Commitment, and (iii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall not exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit. Within the limits of each Lender's Revolving Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Revolving Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as further provided herein; provided, however, that all Borrowings made on the Closing Date shall be made as Base Rate Loans unless the Company has provided a funding indemnity letter to the Administrative Agent on a timely basis in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
Revolving Loans
Revolving Loan
provided
however
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01
(b) . The Company shall have the right, upon at least five Business Days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, to increase the Aggregate Revolving Commitments by up to $500,000,000 in the aggregate in one or more increases, at any time prior to the date that is six months prior to the Maturity Date, , , in any such case, to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Increases of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments
subject
however
(i) the Aggregate Revolving Commitments shall not exceed $2,250,000,000 without the consent of the Required Lenders;
(ii) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date on which such increase is to become effective;
(iii) the representations and warranties set forth in shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date on which such increase is to become effective, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date;
Article VI
(iv) such increase shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000 and in integral multiples of $5,000,000 in excess thereof;
(v) such requested increase shall only be effective upon receipt of (A) additional Revolving Commitments in a corresponding amount of such requested increase from either existing Lenders and/or one or more other institutions that qualify as Eligible Assignees (it being understood and agreed that no existing Lender shall be required to provide an additional Revolving Commitment) and (B) documentation from each institution providing an additional Revolving Commitment evidencing its additional Revolving Commitment and its obligations under this Agreement in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
 
(vi) the Administrative Agent shall have received all documents (including resolutions of the board of directors of the Company and any Designated Borrower) it may reasonably request relating to the corporate or other necessary authority for such increase and the validity of such increase in the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, and any other matters relevant thereto, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
(vii) the applicable Borrower shall have paid such arrangement and upfront fees as agreed by such Borrower that are due and payable on or prior to the dated of such requested increase in the Aggregate Revolving Commitments; and
(viii) if any Revolving Loans are outstanding at the time of the increase in the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, the Borrowers shall, if applicable, prepay one or more existing Revolving Loans (such prepayment to be subject to ) in an amount necessary such that after giving effect to the increase in the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, each Lender will hold its pro rata share (based on its Applicable Percentage of the increased Aggregate Revolving Commitments) of outstanding Revolving Loans.
Section 3.05
2.02 .
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans
(a) Each Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than (i) 12:00 noon three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of, Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Loans, (ii) 12:00 noon four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (iii) 1:00 p.m. on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Company pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the applicable Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $1,000,000 or a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof. Each Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Company is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted, (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, (vi) the currency of the Loans to be borrowed, and (vii) if applicable, the Designated Borrower. If the Company fails to specify a currency in a Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Loans so requested shall be made in Dollars. If the Company fails to specify a Type of a Loan in a Loan Notice or if the Company fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans; , , that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the Company requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in any Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month. No Loan may be converted into or continued as a Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.03(d)
2.04(c)
provided
however
 
(b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Company, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 1:00 p.m., in the case of any Loan denominated in Dollars, and not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Loan Notice; that a Base Rate Loan requested after noon on the same day funding is requested shall be available no later than 2:00 p.m. on that Business Day. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company or the other applicable Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Company; , , that if, on the date of a Borrowing of Revolving Loans denominated in Dollars, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, first, shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings and , shall be made available to such Borrower as provided above.
provided
Section 5.02
Section 5.01
provided
however
second
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of the Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan. During the existence of an Event of Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether in Dollars or any Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders (and, with respect to Loans requested in Mexican pesos or Hong Kong dollars, without the consent of all Lenders), and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be prepaid, or redenominated into Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than twenty Interest Periods in effect.
 
2.03 .
Letters of Credit
(a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
(i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) each L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars for the account of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Company or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Revolving Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations shall not exceed such Lender's Revolving Commitment and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit. Each request by the Company for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Company that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Company's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Company may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed. All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof.
Section 2.03
provided
plus
(ii) An L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
(B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
(iii) An L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
 
(B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of the L/C Issuer applicable to borrowers generally;
(C) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $100,000;
(D) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars;
(E) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder; or
(F) any Lender is at that time a Defaulting Lender, unless such L/C Issuer has entered into arrangements, including the delivery of Cash Collateral, reasonably satisfactory to such L/C Issuer (in its sole discretion) with the Borrower or such Lender to eliminate such L/C Issuer's actual or potential Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to ) with respect to the Defaulting Lender arising from either the Letter of Credit then proposed to be issued or that Letter of Credit and all other L/C Obligations as to which such L/C Issuer has actual or potential Fronting Exposure, as it may elect in its sole discretion.
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
(iv) An L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if such L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
(v) An L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) such L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
(b) An L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and such L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
Article X
Article X
(c) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
(i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Company delivered to the applicable L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their reasonable discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to such L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall
 
be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (G) the purpose and nature of the requested Letter of Credit; and (H) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail reasonably satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as such L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, the Company shall furnish to the applicable L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as such L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
(ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Company and, if not, such L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the applicable L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, such L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Company or the applicable Subsidiary or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with such L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from such L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article V
times
(iii) If the Company so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the applicable L/C Issuer may, in its reasonable discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit such L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the applicable L/C Issuer, the Company shall not be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) such L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that such L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) such L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of clause (ii) or (iii) of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is ten Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Company that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each case directing such L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
Section 2.03(a)
Section 5.02
 
(iv) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the applicable L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(d) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
(i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of drawing under such Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall notify the Company and the Administrative Agent thereof. Not later than 12:00 noon on the date of any payment by such L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), the Company shall reimburse such L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing and in the applicable currency. If the Company fails to so reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Company shall be deemed to have requested a Borrowing of Revolving Loans that are Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Loan Notice) and provided that, after giving effect to such Borrowing, the Total Revolving Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments. Any notice given by the applicable L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 5.02
Section 2.03(d)(i)
provided
(ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available (and the Administrative Agent may apply Cash Collateral provided for this purpose) for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer, in Dollars, at the Administrative Agent's Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Loan to the Company in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the applicable L/C Issuer in Dollars.
Section 2.03(d)(i)
Section 2.03(d)(iii)
(iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Borrowing of Revolving Loans that are Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Company shall be deemed to have incurred from the applicable L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 5.02
Section 2.03(d)(ii)
Section 2.03
(iv) Until each Lender funds its Revolving Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of such L/C Issuer.
Section 2.03(d)
 
(v) Each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against such L/C Issuer, the Company or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Revolving Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Company of a Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Company to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by such L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.03(d)
provided
however
Section 2.03(d)
Section 5.02
(vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , then, without limiting the other provisions of this Agreement, such L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to such L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by such L/C Issuer in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by such L/C Issuer in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Revolving Loan included in the relevant Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be. A certificate of the applicable L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (vi) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.03(d)
Section 2.03(d)(ii)
(e) .
Repayment of Participations
(i) At any time after the applicable L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of such L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Company or otherwise, including proceeds of cash collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in Dollars and in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.03(d)
(ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the applicable L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.03(d)(i)
Section 11.05
 
(f) . The obligation of the Company to reimburse the applicable L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement or any other Loan Document;
(ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Company or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), such L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
(iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(iv) any payment by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by such L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law;
(v) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Company or any Subsidiary.
The Company shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Company's instructions or other irregularity, the Company will immediately notify the applicable L/C Issuer. The Company shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the applicable L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
(g) . Each Lender and the Company agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the applicable L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by such Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the L/C Issuers, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuers shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Company hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Company's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the L/C Issuers, the
Role of L/C Issuers
provided
however
 
Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuers shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in clauses (i) through (vi) of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may have a claim against the applicable L/C Issuer, and such L/C Issuer may be liable to the Company, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Company which the Company proves were caused by such L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or such L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuers may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuers shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Section 2.03(f)
provided
however
(h) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the applicable L/C Issuer and the Company when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit) the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
(i) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, in Dollars, a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Margin for Letter of Credit Fees the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit; , , any Letter of Credit Fees otherwise payable for the account of a Defaulting Lender with respect to any Letter of Credit as to which such Defaulting Lender has not provided Cash Collateral satisfactory to the applicable L/C Issuer pursuant to this shall be payable to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, to the other Lenders in accordance with the upward adjustments in their respective Applicable Percentages allocable to such Letter of Credit pursuant to with the balance of such fee, if any, payable to the applicable L/C Issuer for its own account. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) due and payable on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand and (ii) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. If there is any change in the Applicable Margin for Letter of Credit Fees during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by such Applicable Margin separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Margin was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default pursuant to or exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
times
provided
however
Section 2.03
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
Section 1.09
Section 9.01(a)
9.01(b)
(j) . The Company shall pay directly to the applicable L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit, at the rate per annum agreed to between the Company and the applicable L/C Issuer, computed on the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit and on a quarterly basis in arrears. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, the Company shall pay directly to the applicable L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, the
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuers
Section 1.09
 
customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of such L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
(k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
(l) . Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit. The Company hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of the Company, and that the Company's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
2.04 .
Reserved
2.05 .
Prepayments
(a) .
Voluntary Prepayments of Loans
(i) . Each Borrower may, upon notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Revolving Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (A) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (1) two Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, (2) three Business Days (or five, in the case of prepayment of Loans denominated in Special Notice Currencies) prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies and (3) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (B) any such prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding); (C) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 (or its Alternative Currency Equivalent) or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 (or its Alternative Currency Equivalent) in excess thereof (or, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding) and (D) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding). Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Rate Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the applicable Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
Revolving Loans
provided
Section 3.05
 
(b) .
Mandatory Prepayments of Loans
(i) . If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies at such time exceeds an amount equal to 105% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect, then, within two Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect.
Alternative Currency Sublimit
(ii) If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Total Revolving Outstandings exceeds an amount equal to 105% of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, then, within three Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans, and, if necessary, Cash Collateralize Letters of Credit in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such excess exposure.
Aggregate Revolving Commitments.
(iii) . All amounts required to be paid pursuant to this shall be applied, , ratably to the L/C Borrowings, , to the outstanding Revolving Loans, and, , to Cash Collateralize the remaining L/C Obligations;
Application of Mandatory Prepayments
Section 2.05(b)
first
second
third
Within the parameters of the applications set forth above, prepayments shall be applied first to Base Rate Loans and then to Eurocurrency Rate Loans in direct order of Interest Period maturities. All prepayments under this shall be subject to , but otherwise without premium or penalty, and shall be accompanied by interest on the principal amount prepaid through the date of prepayment.
Section 2.05(b)
Section 3.05
2.06 .
Termination or Reduction of Aggregate Revolving Commitments
The Company may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Revolving Commitments to an amount not less than the Total Revolving Outstandings; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon two Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Revolving Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Revolving Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, the Alternative Currency Sublimit or the Letter of Credit Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments, such sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments. The amount of any such Aggregate Revolving Commitment reduction shall not be applied to the Alternative Currency Sublimit or the Letter of Credit Sublimit unless otherwise specified by the Company. Any reduction of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments shall be applied to the Revolving Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued with respect thereto until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
provided
2.07 .
Repayment on Maturity Date
Each Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of all Loans made to such Borrower outstanding on such date and all other Obligations then outstanding, including all accrued but unpaid interest and fees.
 
2.08 .
Interest
(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Margin for Eurocurrency Loans; and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the sum of the Base Rate the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Loans.
plus
plus
(b)(i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws.
(ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by any Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws.
(iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default under or exists, the Borrowers shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws.
Section 9.01(a)
9.01(b)
(iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
(d) For the purposes of the Interest Act (Canada), (i) whenever a rate of interest or fee rate hereunder is calculated on the basis of a year (the "deemed year") that contains fewer days than the actual number of days in the calendar year of calculation, such rate of interest or fee rate shall be expressed as a yearly rate by multiplying such rate of interest or fee rate by the actual number of days in the calendar year of calculation and dividing it by the number of days in the deemed year, (ii) the principle of deemed reinvestment of interest shall not apply to any interest calculation hereunder and (iii) the rates of interest stipulated herein are intended to be nominal rates and not effective rates or yields.
2.09 .
Fees
In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
Section 2.03
(a) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the product of (i) the Facility Fee set forth in the table under the definition of Applicable Margin (ii) the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments regardless of usage (or, if the Aggregate Revolving Commitments have been terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations), subject to adjustment as provided in (the ""). The Facility Fees
Facility Fee
times
Section 2.16
Facility Fees
 
shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as Revolving Loans and L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The Facility Fees shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Facility Fee set forth in the table under the definition of Applicable Margin during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by such Facility Fee rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Facility Fee rate was in effect.
Article V
(b) . The Company shall pay fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Fee Letters
2.10 .
Computation of Interest and Fees
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans (including Base Rate Loans determined by reference to the Eurodollar Base Rate) shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice. Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.12(a)
2.11 .
Evidence of Debt
(a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrowers and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrowers hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender to a Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, such Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a promissory note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each such promissory note shall be in the form of (a ""). Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
Exhibit 2.11(a)
Note
(b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
 
2.12 .
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
(a) . All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. If, for any reason, any Borrower is prohibited by any law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 2:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b)(i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 1:00 p.m. on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If such Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to such Borrower the amount of such interest paid by such Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. Any payment by such Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim such Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the time at which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or applicable L/C Issuer hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or applicable L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
Payments by Borrowers; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or any Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to any Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to such Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall promptly return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article V
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 11.04(c)
Section 11.04(c)
Section 11.04(c)
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
(f) . If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, L/C Borrowings, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) , toward payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) , toward payment of principal and L/C Borrowings then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and L/C Borrowings then due to such parties.
Insufficient Funds
first
second
 
2.13 .
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
pro
rata
provided
(i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (A) any payment made by or on behalf of a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender), (B) the application of Cash Collateral provided for in , or (C) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations to any assignee or participant, other than an assignment to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
Section 2.15
Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
2.14 .
Designated Borrowers
(a) The Company may at any time, upon not less than three Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion), designate any additional Subsidiary of the Company (an "") as a Designated Borrower to receive Loans hereunder by delivering to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver counterparts thereof to each Lender) a duly executed notice and agreement in substantially the form of (a ""). The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that prior to any Applicant Borrower becoming entitled to utilize the credit facilities provided for herein the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received the information required by . If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders agree in writing that an Applicant Borrower shall be entitled to receive Loans hereunder, then promptly following receipt of all information required by , the Administrative Agent shall send a notice in substantially the form of (a "") to the Company and the Lenders specifying the effective date upon which the Applicant Borrower shall constitute a Designated Borrower for purposes hereof, whereupon each of the Lenders agrees to permit such Designated Borrower to receive Loans hereunder, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and each of the parties agrees that such Designated Borrower otherwise shall be a Borrower for all purposes of this Agreement; that no Loan Notice or Letter of Credit Application may be submitted by or on behalf of such Designated Borrower until the date two Business Days after such effective date.
Applicant Borrower
Exhibit 2.14(a)
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
Section 5.03
Section 5.03
Exhibit 2.14(b)
Designated Borrower Notice
provided
(b) The Obligations of all Designated Borrowers shall be several in nature, subject to Article IV.
 
(c) Each Subsidiary of the Company that becomes a "Designated Borrower" pursuant to this hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as its agent for all purposes relevant to this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, including (i) the giving and receipt of notices, (ii) the execution and delivery of all documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein and all modifications hereto, and (iii) the receipt of the proceeds of any Loans made by the Lenders, to any such Designated Borrower hereunder. Any acknowledgment, consent, direction, certification or other action which might otherwise be valid or effective only if given or taken by all Borrowers, or by each Borrower acting singly, shall be valid and effective if given or taken only by the Company, whether or not any such other Borrower joins therein. Any notice, demand, consent, acknowledgement, direction, certification or other communication delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been delivered to each Designated Borrower.
Section 2.14
(d) The Company may from time to time, upon not less than three Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion), terminate a Designated Borrower's status as such, that there are no outstanding Loans payable by such Designated Borrower, or other amounts payable by such Designated Borrower on account of any Loans made to it, as of the effective date of such termination. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such termination of a Designated Borrower's status.
provided
2.15 .
Cash Collateral
(a) . Upon the request of the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer (i) if such L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Company shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations. At any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender, immediately upon the request of the Administrative Agent or the applicable L/C Issuer, the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to cover all Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to and any Cash Collateral provided by the Defaulting Lender).
Certain Credit Support Events
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
(b) . All Cash Collateral (other than credit support not constituting funds subject to deposit) shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America. The Company, and to the extent provided by any Lender, such Lender, hereby grants to (and subjects to the control of) the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders, and agrees to maintain, a first priority security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein, and all other property so provided as collateral pursuant hereto, and in all proceeds of the foregoing, all as security for the obligations to which such Cash Collateral may be applied pursuant to . If at any time the Administrative Agent determines that Cash Collateral is subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Administrative Agent as herein provided, or that the total amount of such Cash Collateral is less than the applicable Fronting Exposure and other obligations secured thereby, the Company or the relevant Defaulting Lender will, promptly upon demand by the Administrative Agent, pay or provide to the Administrative Agent additional Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to eliminate such deficiency.
Grant of Security Interest
Section 2.15(c)
(c) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Cash Collateral provided under any of this or , , , or in respect of Letters of Credit shall be held and applied to the satisfaction of the specific L/C Obligations, obligations to fund participations therein (including, as to Cash Collateral provided by a Defaulting Lender, any interest accrued on such obligation) and other obligations for which the Cash Collateral was so provided, prior to any other application of such property as may be provided for herein.
Application
Section 2.15
Sections 2.03
2.04
2.05
2.16
9.02
 
(d) . Cash Collateral (or the appropriate portion thereof) provided to reduce Fronting Exposure or other obligations shall be released promptly following (i) the elimination of the applicable Fronting Exposure or other obligations giving rise thereto (including by the termination of Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender (or, as appropriate, its assignee following compliance with )) or (ii) the Administrative Agent's good faith determination that there exists excess Cash Collateral; , , (x) that Cash Collateral furnished by or on behalf of the Company shall not be released during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default (and following application as provided in this may be otherwise applied in accordance with ), and (y) the Person providing Cash Collateral and the applicable L/C Issuer, as applicable, may agree that Cash Collateral shall not be released but instead held to support future anticipated Fronting Exposure or other obligations.
Release
Section 11.06(b)(vi)
provided
however
Section 2.15
Section 9.03
2.16 .
Defaulting Lenders
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable law:
Adjustments
(i) . That Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in .
Waivers and Amendments
Section 11.01
(ii) . Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent for the account of that Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by that Defaulting Lender pursuant to ), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows: , to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder; , to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the L/C Issuers hereunder; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by the L/C Issuers, to be held as Cash Collateral for future funding obligations of that Defaulting Lender of any participation in any Letter of Credit; , as the Company may request (so long as no Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Loan in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent; , if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Company, to be held in a non-interest bearing deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Lender to fund Loans under this Agreement; , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders or the L/C Issuers as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lenders or the L/C Issuers against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; , so long as no Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Company as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Company against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and , to that Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Loans or L/C Borrowings in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) such Loans or L/C Borrowings were made at a time when the conditions set forth in were satisfied or
Reallocation of Payments
Article IX
Section 11.08
first
second
third
fourth
fifth
sixth
seventh
eighth
provided
Section 5.02
 
waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Loans of, and L/C Borrowings owed to, all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Loans of, or L/C Borrowings owed to, that Defaulting Lender. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post Cash Collateral pursuant to this shall be deemed paid to and redirected by that Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
Section 2.16(a)(ii)
(iii) . That Defaulting Lender (x) shall be entitled to receive any Facility Fee pursuant to for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender only to extent allocable to the sum of (1) the Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans funded by it and (2) its Applicable Percentage of the stated amount of Letters of Credit for which it has provided Cash Collateral pursuant to , , , or , as applicable (and the Company shall (A) be required to pay to each of the L/C Issuers the amount of such fee allocable to its Fronting Exposure arising from that Defaulting Lender to the extent that the Company has not posted Cash Collateral for such exposure and (B) not be required to pay the remaining amount of such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender) and (y) shall be limited in its right to receive Letter of Credit Fees as provided in .
Certain Fees
Section 2.09(a)
Section 2.03
Section 2.04
Section 2.15
Section 2.16(a)(ii)
Section 2.03(i)
(iv) . During any period in which there is a Defaulting Lender, for purposes of computing the amount of the obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit pursuant to and , the "Applicable Percentage" of each non-Defaulting Lender shall be computed without giving effect to the Revolving Commitment of that Defaulting Lender; , that, (i) each such reallocation shall be given effect only if, at the date the applicable Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, no Default exists; and (ii) the aggregate obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit shall not exceed the positive difference, if any, of (1) the Revolving Commitment of that non-Defaulting Lender (2) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Revolving Loans of that Lender.
Reallocation of Applicable Percentages to Reduce Fronting Exposure
Sections 2.03
2.04
provided
minus
(b) . If the Company, the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuers agree in writing in their sole discretion that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any Cash Collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Loans of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Loans and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Applicable Percentages (without giving effect to ), whereupon that Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Company while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and , , that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
Defaulting Lender Cure
Section 2.16(a)(iv)
provided
provided
further
2.17 .
Extension of Maturity Date
(a) . The Company may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) once during the term of this Agreement and not later than 30 days prior to December 17, 2013 (the ""), request that each Lender extend such Lender's Maturity Date for an additional one year from the Existing Maturity Date (the "").
Requests for Extension
Existing Maturity Date
Extension Request
 
(b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not more than 20 days after it has been notified of the Extension Request (the ""), advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to extend the Maturity Date in accordance with the Extension Request. A Lender that determines not to extend its Maturity Date in response to the Extension Request will hereinafter be referred to as a "." Any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent of its decision with respect to the Extension Request on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than three Business Days after the Notice Date.
Notification by Administrative Agent
(d) . The Company shall have the right to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "") as provided in ; that (i) each of such Additional Commitment Lenders that is not already a Lender shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the Assignment and Assumption, undertake a Commitment in an amount specified in such Assignment and Assumption and (ii) each such Additional Commitment Lender that is already a Lender shall agree to have its existing Commitment increased in an amount specified by the Company.
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 11.13
provided
(e) . If (and only if) the total of (i) the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date in accordance with this Section (each, an "") and (ii) the additional Commitments of the Additional Commitment Lenders shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Existing Maturity Date, then, effective as of the Existing Maturity Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling one year after the Existing Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender that is not already a Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
(f) . As a condition precedent to such extension, the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Borrower dated as of the Existing Maturity Date signed by a Responsible Officer of such Borrower certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Borrower authorizing and empowering certain officers of the Company to effect such extension and, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such extension, (i) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Existing Maturity Date, except (a) to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and (b) the representations and warranties contained in subsections (i) and (ii) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively, of , and (ii) no Default exists. In addition, on the Existing Maturity Date, the Company shall prepay any Revolving Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to pay the Non-Extending Lenders in full and to keep outstanding Revolving Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
Article VI
Section 6.01(e)
Section 7.02
Section 3.05
(g) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
11.01
 
3.01 .
Taxes
(a) .
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
(i) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrowers hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall to the extent permitted by applicable laws be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Taxes. If, however, applicable laws require any Borrower or the Administrative Agent to withhold or deduct any Tax, such Tax shall be withheld or deducted in accordance with such laws as determined by the applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to subsection (e) below.
(ii) If any Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be required by the Internal Revenue Code to withhold or deduct any Taxes, including both United States Federal backup withholding and withholding taxes, from any payment, then (A) the Administrative Agent shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by the Administrative Agent to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to subsection (e) below, (B) the Administrative Agent shall timely pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, the sum payable by the applicable Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or any L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes been made.
(iii) If any Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be required by any applicable laws other than the Internal Revenue Code to withhold or deduct any Taxes from any payment, then (A) the applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as required by such laws, shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by it to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to subsection (e) below, (B) the applicable Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the extent required by such laws, shall timely pay the full amount so withheld or deducted by it to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with such laws, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, the sum payable by the applicable Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or any L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes been made.
 
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrowers shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable laws.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrowers
(c) .
Tax Indemnification
(i) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, the Borrowers shall, and do hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and shall make payment in respect thereof within ten days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) withheld or deducted by such Borrower or the Administrative Agent or paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The Borrowers shall also, and do hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within ten days after demand therefor, for any amount which a Lender or such L/C Issuer for any reason fails to pay indefeasibly to the Administrative Agent as required by clause (ii) of this subsection. A certificate as to the amount of any such payment or liability delivered to a Borrower by a Lender or an L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(ii) Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) above, each Lender and each L/C Issuer shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within ten days after demand therefor, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent by any Governmental Authority as a result of the failure by such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (e). Each Lender and each L/C Issuer hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this clause (ii). The agreements in this clause (ii) shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender or an L/C Issuer, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
(d) . Upon request by the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by the Borrowers or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Authority as provided in this , the applicable Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the applicable Borrower, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
Evidence of Payments
Section 3.01
 
(e) .
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
(i) Each Lender shall deliver to the Company and to the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable laws or when reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable laws or by the taxing authorities of any jurisdiction and such other reasonably requested information as will permit the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine (A) whether or not payments made by the respective Borrowers hereunder or under any other Loan Document are subject to Taxes, (B) if applicable, the required rate of withholding or deduction, and (C) such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable Taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender by the respective Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in the applicable jurisdictions.
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if a Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States,
(A) any Lender that is a "United States person" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable laws or reasonably requested by the Company on behalf of such Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Company or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements; and
(B) each Foreign Lender that is entitled under the Internal Revenue Code or any applicable treaty to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Company on behalf of such Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(I) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(II) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(III) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY and all required supporting documentation,
(IV) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of such Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code and (y) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
 
(V) executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable laws as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable laws to permit the Company or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(vi) Each Lender shall promptly (A) notify the Company and the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable laws of any jurisdiction that any Borrower or the Administrative Agent make any withholding or deduction for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender.
(vii) Each of the Borrowers shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date (or such later date on which it first becomes a Borrower), and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
(f) . Unless required by applicable laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender or any L/C Issuer, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be. If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines, in its reasonable discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by a Borrower or with respect to which any Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to such Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by any Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses and net of any loss or gain realized in the conversion of such funds from or to another currency incurred by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that such Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
provided
 
3.02 .
Illegality
If any Lender determines that any law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Company through the Administrative Agent, (i) any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurocurrency Rate shall be suspended and (ii) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender making or maintaining Base Rate Loans the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Base Rate component of the Base Rate, the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Base Rate component of the Base Rate, in each case, until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, (x) the Borrowers shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and such Loans are denominated in Dollars, convert all of such Lender's Eurocurrency Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans (the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary, to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurocurrency Base Rate component of the Base Rate), either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans and (y) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Base Rate, the Administrative Agent shall during the period of such suspension compute the Base Rate applicable to such Lender without reference to the Eurocurrency Base Rate component thereof until the Administrative Agent is advised in writing by such Lender that it is no longer illegal for such Lender to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Base Rate. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrowers shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.03 .
Inability to Determine Rates
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits (whether in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurocurrency Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Loan or in connection with a Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Company and each Lender. Thereafter, (x) the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies shall be suspended and (y) in the event of a determination described in the preceding sentence with respect to the Eurocurrency Base Rate component of the Base Rate, the utilization of the Eurocurrency Base Rate component in determining the Base Rate shall be suspended, in each case, until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the applicable Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
 
3.04 .
Increased Costs
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurocurrency Rate) or any L/C Issuer;
(ii) subject any Lender or any L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or such L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer); or
Section 3.01
(iii) impose on any Lender or any L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan the interest on which is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Base Rate (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or such L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or such L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or such L/C Issuer, the Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) . If any Lender or any L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or such L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitment of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
(c) . A certificate of a Lender or an L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Company shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
 
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender or an L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
3.05
Compensation for Losses.
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to compensate) such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b) any failure by any Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Eurocurrency Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Company; or
(c) any failure by any Borrower to make payment of any Loan or drawing under any Letter of Credit (or interest due thereon) denominated in an Alternative Currency on its scheduled due date or any payment thereof in a different currency; or
(d) any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to ; or
Section 11.13
including any loss of anticipated profits, any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Company shall also pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Company (or the applicable Designated Borrower) to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Base Rate used in determining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank eurodollar market for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
 
3.06 .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender, the L/C Issuer, or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall, as applicable, use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be. The Company hereby agrees to pay (or to cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender or the L/C Issuer in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
(b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Company may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 11.13
3.07 .
Survival
All of the Borrowers' obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Revolving Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder, and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
Article III
4.01 .
The Guaranty
The Company hereby guarantees to the Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuers the prompt payment of the Designated Borrower Obligations in full when due and hereby agrees that if any of the Designated Borrower Obligations are not paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise), the Company will promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any of the Designated Borrower Obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full when due (whether at extended maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration, as a mandatory cash collateralization or otherwise) in accordance with the terms of such extension or renewal.
4.02 .
Obligations Unconditional
The obligations of the Company under are absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Designated Borrower Obligations, or any substitution, release, impairment or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Designated Borrower Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever that might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor, it being the intent of
Section 4.01
 
this that the obligations of the Company hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. The Company agrees that it shall have no right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or contribution against any Borrower for amounts paid under this until such time as the Designated Borrower Obligations have been paid in full and the Commitments have expired or terminated.
Section 4.02
Article IV
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall not alter or impair the liability of the Company hereunder, which shall remain absolute and unconditional as described above:
(a) at any time or from time to time, without notice to the Company, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the Designated Borrower Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived;
(b) any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Designated Borrower Obligations shall be done or omitted;
(c) the maturity of any of the Designated Borrower Obligations shall be accelerated, or any of the Designated Borrower Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any respect, or any right under any of the Loan Documents or other documents relating to the Designated Borrower Obligations shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the Designated Borrower Obligations or any security therefor shall be released, impaired or exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with;
(d) any Lien granted to, or in favor of, the Administrative Agent or any other holder of the Designated Borrower Obligations as security for any of the Designated Borrower Obligations shall fail to attach or be perfected; or
(e) any of the Designated Borrower Obligations shall be determined to be void or voidable (including, without limitation, for the benefit of any creditor of the Company) or shall be subordinated to the claims of any Person (including, without limitation, any creditor of the Company).
With respect to its obligations hereunder, the Company hereby expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest and all notices whatsoever, and any requirement that the Administrative Agent or any other holder of the Designated Borrower Obligations exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against any Person under any of the Loan Documents or any other document relating to the Designated Borrower Obligations or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, any of the Designated Borrower Obligations. To the extent permitted by law, the Company expressly waives any law or regulation of any jurisdiction or any other event which affects any term of the Company's obligations hereunder.
4.03 .
Reinstatement
The obligations of the Company under this shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Designated Borrower Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Designated Borrower Obligations, whether as a result of any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, and the Company agrees that it will indemnify the Administrative Agent and each other holder of the Designated Borrower Obligations on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, the fees, charges and disbursements of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such holder of the Designated Borrower Obligations in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any Debtor Relief Law.
Article IV
 
4.04 .
Certain Additional Waivers
The Company agrees that it shall have no right of recourse to security for the Designated Borrower Obligations, except through the exercise of rights of subrogation pursuant to and through the exercise of rights of contribution pursuant to .
Section 4.02
Section 4.06
4.05 .
Remedies
The Company agrees that, to the fullest extent permitted by law, as between the Company, on the one hand, and holders of the Designated Borrower Obligations, on the other hand, the Designated Borrower Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances specified in ) for purposes of notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing the Designated Borrower Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or the Designated Borrower Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), the Designated Borrower Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Company for purposes of .
Section 9.02
Section 9.02
Section 4.01
Section 4.01
4.06 .
Guarantee of Payment; Continuing Guarantee
The guarantee given by the Company in this is a guaranty of payment and not of collection, is a continuing guarantee, and shall apply to all Designated Borrower Obligations whenever arising.
Article IV
5.01 .
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness
This Agreement shall become effective upon satisfaction of the following conditions precedent (the ""):
Closing Date
(a) The Administrative Agent shall have received the following, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(i) an executed counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of the Company, the Administrative Agent and each Lender;
(ii) To the extent requested pursuant to , a duly executed Note of the Company, for the account of each requesting Lender;
Section 2.11(a)
 
(iii) A certificate of the Secretary of the Company certifying (A) copies attached thereto of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company authorizing and empowering certain officers of the Company to effect such borrowings as such officers may deem necessary or desirable for proper corporate purposes, subject to the limitations set forth in such resolutions, (B) copies attached thereto of the Certificate of Incorporation and by-laws of the Company and (C) the names and true signatures of the officers of the Company authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and other documents to be executed and delivered by the Company hereunder;
(iv) A certificate from the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware dated a date reasonably close to the date hereof as to the good standing of and organizational documents filed by the Company;
(v) A certificate of a duly authorized officer of the Company, dated the Closing Date, certifying that as of such date, (A) the representations and warranties contained in are correct in all material respects on and as of the Closing Date, (B) no Default or Event of Default as of the date thereof has occurred and is continuing and (C) the current Debt Ratings; and
Section 6.01
(vi) An opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, substantially in the form of hereto.
Exhibit 5.01(e)
(b) The Company shall have paid all reasonable accrued fees and expenses of the Arrangers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders which are due and payable on the Closing Date to the extent invoiced (including, without limitation, fees set forth in the Fee Letters and the reasonable fees and expenses of Moore & Van Allen PLLC, counsel for the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent);
(c) There shall have occurred no material adverse change in the business, financial condition, results of operations or properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, since December 31, 2009;
(d) There shall exist no action, suit or proceeding (investigative, judicial or otherwise) against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pending before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official, or to the knowledge of any Responsible Officer of the Company, threatened, that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence (reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Arrangers) of the termination of the commitments under, and the payment of all amounts owing under, the Company's existing credit agreement dated as of January 8, 2007 among the Company, the banks party thereto and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent; and
(f) Receipt of such documentation as may be required by any Lender, any L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent in order to comply with Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act or necessary for any Lender, any L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to verify the identity of any Borrower as required by Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act, as requested through the Administrative Agent.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified above in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved and accepted, and to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date, as notified by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders, specifying its objection thereto. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders of the occurrence of the Closing Date.
Section 10.04
Section 5.01
 
5.02 .
Conditions Precedent to Each Credit Extension
The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension and the obligation to issue, amend, extend or renew a Letter of Credit shall be subject to the further conditions precedent on the date of such request for Credit Extension or the date of issuance, amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit, that the following statements shall be true (and the giving of the applicable Loan Notice and the acceptance by the applicable Borrower of the proceeds of such Borrowing and/or the receipt of a letter of credit application requesting the issuance of such Letter of Credit as required by shall constitute a representation and warranty by the applicable Borrower that on the date of such Request for Credit Extension such statements are true):
Section 2.03
(a) The representations and warranties contained in (other than are correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Credit Extension (other than those representations and warranties that expressly relate solely to a specific earlier date, which shall remain correct in all material respects as of such earlier date), before and after giving effect to such Credit Extension and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
Section 6.01
Section 6.01(e)(iii))
(b) No event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds therefrom or from such amendment, extension or renewal of such Letter of Credit, which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default.
(c) In the case of Credit Extension to be denominated in an Alternative Currency, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders would make it impracticable for such Credit Extension to be denominated in the relevant Alternative Currency.
5.03 .
Conditions Precedent to Initial Advance to Each Designated Borrower
The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Advance hereunder to any Applicant Borrower and the obligation to issue, amend, extend or renew a Letter of Credit is subject to the conditions precedent that the Closing Date shall have occurred and the Administrative Agent shall have received on or before the day of the initial Borrowing by such Applicant Borrower or the date of issuance, amendment, extension or renewal of a Letter of Credit the following, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
(a) The Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement executed and delivered by such Applicant Borrower (and containing the written consent of the Company), in accordance with hereof;
Section 2.14
(b) To the extent requested pursuant to , a Note executed by such Applicant Borrower, payable for the account of each requesting Lender;
Section 2.11(a)
(c) Copies of any and all governmental approvals, if any, required with respect to the Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement;
 
(d) A certificate of the Secretary of such Applicant Borrower certifying (A) copies attached thereto of the resolutions of the Board of Directors or similar body of such Applicant Borrower authorizing and empowering certain officers of such Applicant Borrower to enter into and perform the Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement, (B) copies attached thereto of the organizational documents of such Applicant Borrower, and (C) the names and true signatures of the officers of such Applicant Borrower authorized to sign the Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement and, to the extent requested pursuant to , any Notes;
Section 2.11
(e) An opinion of counsel to such Applicant Borrower, in form and substance as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request;
(f) A certificate from the jurisdiction of organization of such Applicant Borrower dated a date reasonably close to the date hereof as to the good standing of and organizational documents filed by such Applicant Borrower, in each case to the extent available;
(g) Such documentation as may be required by any Lender, any L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent in order to comply with Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act or necessary for any Lender, any L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to verify the identity of such Applicant Borrower as required by Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act, as requested through the Administrative Agent; and
(h) Such other approvals, opinions and documents relating to the Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement, this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
6.01
.
Representations and Warranties of the Company
The Company hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and each Lender and each L/C Issuer that:
(a) The Company is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the state of Delaware.
(b)(i) The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement and any Notes are within the Company's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official, and do not contravene or constitute a default under, (A) the Company's certificate of incorporation, as amended, or by-laws or (B) any provision of applicable law or regulation or any contractual restriction, judgment, order, injunction, decree or other instrument binding on or affecting the Company.
(ii) The execution, delivery and performance by a Designated Borrower of a Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement and any Notes are within such Designated Borrower's powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, require no action by or in respect of, or filing with, any governmental body,
 
agency or official, and do not conflict with or contravene or constitute a default under, (A) such Designated Borrower's organizational documents or (B) any provision of applicable law or regulation or any contractual restriction, judgment, order, injunction, decree or other instrument binding on or affecting such Designated Borrower.
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Company of this Agreement or a Designated Borrower of any Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement.
(d) This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Company or, as applicable, a Designated Borrower. This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company (and each Designated Borrower) enforceable against the Company (and each Designated Borrower) in accordance with their respective terms, subject to any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to general principles of equity.
(e)(i) The consolidated balance sheets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flow and shareholders' equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at such date and the consolidated results of the operations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the period ended on such date, all in accordance with in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby.
(ii) The consolidated balance sheets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries most recently delivered pursuant to  and , and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flow and shareholders' equity of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the applicable fiscal period then ended fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at each such date and the consolidated results of the operations of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the period ended on such date, all in accordance with in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein (subject, in the case of unaudited financial statements, to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments).
Sections 7.02 (a)
(b)
(iii) Since December 31, 2009, there has been no material adverse change in the business, financial condition, results of operations or properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
(f) There are no actions, suits or proceedings (investigative, judicial or otherwise) against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pending before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official, or, to the knowledge of any Responsible Officer of the Company, threatened, that could reasonably be expected (i) to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) to materially and adversely affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note.
 
(g) Following application of the proceeds of each Loan to the Company, not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Company and its Consolidated Subsidiaries will be Margin Stock.
(h) The Company is not principally engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
(i) The Loans to each Borrower, and all related obligations of such Borrower under this Agreement, rank pari passu with all other unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed or raised by such Borrower that is not, by its terms, expressly subordinated to other such indebtedness of such Borrower.
(j) Neither the Company nor any Designated Borrower is required to register as an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(k)(i) All necessary Environmental Permits have been obtained and are in effect for the operations and properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and the Company and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with all such Environmental Permits, except to the extent that the failure to so obtain or comply could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (ii) no circumstances exist that could reasonably be expected to (A) form the basis of an Environmental Action against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their properties that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) cause any such property to be subject to any restrictions on ownership, occupancy, use or transferability under any Environmental Law that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(l) None of the properties owned or leased by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the subject of any investigation or cleanup, whether voluntary or required pursuant to any Environmental Law or ordered by any governmental authority, that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(m) Except to the extent that it could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, each Plan is in compliance with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code and other federal or state laws and each Plan that is intended to be a qualified plan under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS to the effect that the form of such Plan is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and the trust related thereto has been determined by the IRS to be exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS. To the best knowledge of the Company, nothing has occurred that would prevent or cause the loss of such tax-qualified status, except to the extent that it could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(n) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could be reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(o) Except to the extent that it could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect (i) no ERISA Event has occurred, and neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate is aware of any fact, event or circumstance that could reasonably be expected to
 
constitute or result in an ERISA Event with respect to any Pension Plan; (ii) the Company and each ERISA Affiliate has met all applicable requirements under the Pension Funding Rules in respect of each Pension Plan, and no waiver of the minimum funding standards under the Pension Funding Rules has been applied for or obtained; (iii) as of the most recent valuation date for any Pension Plan, the funding target attainment percentage (as defined in Section 430(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code) is 60% or higher and neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate knows of any facts or circumstances that could reasonably be expected to cause the funding target attainment percentage for any such plan to drop below 60% as of the most recent valuation date; (iv) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred any liability to the PBGC other than for the payment of premiums, and there are no premium payments which have become due that are unpaid; (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or Section 4212(c) of ERISA; and (vi) no Pension Plan has been terminated by the plan administrator thereof nor by the PBGC, and no event or circumstance has occurred or exists that could reasonably be expected to cause the PBGC to institute proceedings under Title IV of ERISA to terminate any Pension Plan.
(p) All of the Company's Subsidiaries that are corporations are duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of incorporation, and have all corporate powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on their respective businesses as now conducted. All of the Company's Subsidiaries that are a limited partnership or limited liability company are duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of their respective jurisdictions of organization, and have all powers and all material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on their respective businesses as now conducted.
(q) The information set forth in the Information Documents was true and accurate in all material respects on the date thereof and on the Closing Date, except that the Company makes no representation whatsoever (express or implied) with respect to any statements, information, estimates or projections with respect to the future trends or performance of the Company and its Subsidiaries. All written information regarding the Company and its Subsidiaries furnished by, or on behalf of, the Company at any meeting to which all the Lenders were invited and any written information regarding the Company and its Subsidiaries furnished by, or on behalf of, the Company to the Administrative Agent or any Lender pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement was true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information was furnished, subject to the exception set forth in the preceding sentence for statements, information, estimates or projections with respect to the future trends or performance of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
(r) The Company and its Material Subsidiaries maintain, with financially sound and responsible insurance companies (which may include so-called captive insurance companies), such insurance against such risks as are customarily insured against by Persons engaged in similar businesses; provided, the Company and its Material Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as such other Persons.
(s) The Company and each of its Material Subsidiaries have filed all federal income, material state income and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all material federal, state and other taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. To the knowledge of the Company or any Subsidiary, there is no proposed tax assessment against any the Company or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(t) The Company and each of its Subsidiaries is in compliance with the requirements of all laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
So long as any Loan or Obligation shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
7.01 .
Compliance with Laws, Etc
The Company shall comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, except for laws, rules, regulations and orders the violation of which, in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
7.02 .
Reporting Requirements
The Company shall furnish to the Agent (for delivery to the Lenders):
(a) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, but in no case earlier than when such report shall be required to be filed with the Commission, a copy of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission for such quarter, or any similar quarterly report required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; provided that if the Company shall no longer be required to so file with the Commission, the Company shall nonetheless thereafter continue to furnish to the Lenders such financial statements and related materials as would have comprised such filings, at such times as the Company would have otherwise delivered the same to the Commission;
(b) within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, but in no case earlier than when such report shall be required to be filed with the Commission, a copy of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission for such year, or any similar annual report required to be filed by the Company with the Commission; provided that if the Company shall no longer be required to so file with the Commission, the Company will nonetheless thereafter continue to furnish to the Lenders such financial statements and related materials as would have comprised such filings, at such times as the Company would have otherwise delivered the same to the Commission;
(c) simultaneously with the delivery of the reports referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above, a certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Company (i) setting forth in reasonable detail the calculations required to establish whether the Company was in compliance with the requirements of on the date of such financial statements and (ii) stating whether there exists on the date of such certificate any Default or Event of Default and setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Company is taking with respect thereto;
Section 8.04
 
(d) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all reports which the Company sends to any of its security holders, and copies of all reports and registration statements (other than Form S-8 or any similar form) which any Borrower files with the Commission or any national securities exchange;
(e) promptly following any Responsible Officer's knowledge thereof, notice in writing of (i) the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default and setting forth the details thereof and the action which the Company is taking with respect thereto, (ii) the institution of, or any adverse final judgment in, any litigation, arbitration proceeding or governmental proceeding which, in the Company's judgment, if adversely determined, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or (iii) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
(f) such other information as any Lender may reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to ,  or  (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the Commission) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Company posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Company's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Company's behalf on Venue (or such other Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access, whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Company shall deliver (including by electronic mail) paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon its request to the Company to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by facsimile or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. The Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery of or to maintain paper copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request by a Lender for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 7.02(a)
(b)
(d)
Schedule 11.02
provided
i.e.
The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Company hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on Venue (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Company or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. The Company hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Company shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Company or its securities for purposes of United States federal securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated as "Public Side Information;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform that is not marked as "Public Side Information." Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.09
 
7.03 .
Use of Proceeds
A Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions made under this Agreement for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, commercial paper backstop and letters of credit; , that none of such proceeds will be used in violation of any applicable law or regulation.
provided
7.04 .
Books and Records; Inspection
The Company shall, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) maintain complete and accurate books and records, in which full and correct entries shall be made of all financial transactions of the Company and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and (b) permit any Lender, the Administrative Agent and their respective employees and agents, at such reasonable times during normal business hours and as often as may be reasonably requested, to inspect any of the properties of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and to inspect and make copies of the material books and records of the Company and its Subsidiaries and to discuss the affairs and finances of the Company and its Subsidiaries with their officers; provided that such Lender or the Administrative Agent shall have delivered a written request for such inspection to the Company prior to the date of any such inspection and that any information provided to the Lenders pursuant to this shall be subject to the provisions of hereof.
Section 7.04
Section 11.07
7.05 .
Corporate Existence
Subject to the Company's rights under , the Company shall, and shall cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to, at all times maintain its corporate existence and preserve and keep, or cause to be preserved and kept, in full force and effect its rights and franchises material to its businesses.
Section 8.06
7.06 .
Payment of Taxes
The Company shall pay and discharge, and cause each of its Material Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or its property; , , that neither the Company nor any of its Material Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or levy that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained in accordance with GAAP, as long as no action has been commenced to enforce any Lien securing any such tax, assessment, charge or levy.
provided
however
7.07 .
Maintenance of Property; Insurance
(a) The Company shall, and shall cause its Subsidiaries to, keep all property useful and necessary in their respective businesses in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except where the failure to do so would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) The Company and its Material Subsidiaries shall maintain, with financially sound and responsible insurance companies (which may include so-called captive insurance companies), such insurance against such risks as are customarily insured against by companies engaged in similar businesses; provided, the Company and its Material Subsidiaries may self-insure to the same extent as such other Persons.
 
So long as any Loan or Obligation shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
8.01 .
Subsidiary Debt
The Company shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist any Debt other than:
(a) Debt under the Loan Documents;
(b) Debt issued and outstanding, or available under existing lines of credit, on the Closing Date and any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part thereof; provided that the principal amount of such Debt, or aggregate commitment available thereby after giving effect to such extension, renewal or replacement shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt or aggregate commitment available on the Closing Date;
(c) intercompany Debt among the Company and its Subsidiaries or among its Subsidiaries;
(d) cash management obligations and Debt incurred in respect of netting services, overdraft protection and similar arrangements;
(e) Debt of a Person that existed at the time such Person is acquired and becomes a Subsidiary of the Company or Debt of a Person that existed at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with a Subsidiary or Debt acquired by a Subsidiary in connection with the acquisition of all or substantially all of a division or business of a Person, in each case, to the extent such Debt was not created in contemplation of such acquisition, merger or consolidation;
(f) any earn-out obligation that comprises a portion of the consideration for an acquisition or Debt consisting of obligations under deferred compensation or other similar arrangements incurred in connection with an acquisition;
(g) purchase money obligations for the purchase of goods on ordinary trade termsfixed assets or capital assets;
,
(h) other Debt to the extent not otherwise permitted by clauses (a) through (g) of this , so long as the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Debt pursuant to this clause (h) shall not at any time outstanding exceed (i) $250,000,000 for Domestic Subsidiaries and (ii) $750,000,000 for all Subsidiaries, including Domestic Subsidiaries; and
Section 8.01
(i) Guarantees with respect to Debt permitted under this .
Section 8.01
8.02 .
Restricted Payments
The Company shall not during the existence and continuation of an Event of Default, (a) declare any dividend or distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so or (b) make, or permit a Subsidiary to make any payment (whether in
 
cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any equity interests or on account of any return of capital to the Company or a Subsidiary's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof), or any setting apart of funds or property for any of the foregoing other than, in each case, (i) a Subsidiary may make a dividend or distribution to the Company or another Subsidiary or to any other Person to the extent required by applicable law, regulation or order, (ii) the Company may, in the ordinary course of business, declare and pay dividends and other payments solely in common shares of the Company, (iii) the Company may pay any dividend or distribution within 60 days after the declaration thereof to the extent no Event of Default existed at the time of such declaration, (iv) the Company may, in the ordinary course of business, (x) repurchase its equity interests owned by retiring directors, officers or employees of the Company and (y) make payments to directors, officers or employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries upon termination of employment in connection with the exercise of stock options, stock appreciation rights or similar equity or equity-based incentives pursuant to management or other incentive plans or in connection with the death or disability of such employees, and (iv) the Company may, in the ordinary course of business, repurchase restricted equity interests of the Company issued as compensation to officers, directors and employees upon the vesting of such restricted equity interests if the fair market value of such repurchased equity interests represent an amount equal to the tax withholding obligations of such officers, directors and employees that result from the vesting of such restricted equity interests.
8.03 .
Burdensome Agreements
The Company shall not, nor shall it permit its wholly-owned Material Subsidiaries to, enter into, or permit to exist, any consensual Contractual Obligation that (a) encumbers or restricts the ability of such wholly-owned Material Subsidiary to (i) make dividends or distributions to the Company, (ii) pay any Debt or other obligation owed to the Company, (iii) make loans or advances to the Company, (iv) transfer any of its property to the Company or (b) encumbers or restricts the ability of the Company or such wholly-owned Material Subsidiary to pledge its property pursuant to the Loan Documents or any renewals, refinancings, exchanges, refundings or extension thereof, except, in each case, those (1) existing under the Loan Documents and any other agreement in effect on the Closing Date and any amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof, that the encumbrances and restrictions in any such amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings are not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those contained in such existing agreement, (2) existing under, by reason of, or with respect to, applicable law, rule, regulation or order, (3) with respect to any Person or the property or assets of a Person acquired by the Company or any Material Subsidiary existing at the time of such acquisition and not incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition and any amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings thereof, that the encumbrances or restrictions in any such amendments, modifications, restatements, renewals, extensions, supplements, refundings, replacements, or refinancings are not materially more restrictive, taken as a whole, than those in effect at the time of the acquisition, (4) that restrict in a customary manner the subletting, assignment or transfer of any property or asset that is a lease, license, conveyance or contract or similar property or asset, (5) existing by virtue of any transfer of, agreement to transfer, option or right with respect to, or Lien on, any property or assets of the Company or any Material Subsidiary not otherwise prohibited by the Loan Documents, (6) arising or agreed to in the ordinary course of business, not relating to any Debt, and that do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially detract from the value of any property or assets of the Company or any Material Subsidiary, (7) existing under, by reason of or with respect to any agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the capital stock of, or property and assets of, a Material Subsidiary that restrict distributions by that Material Subsidiary pending such sale or other disposition, (8) existing under, by reason of, or with respect to, customary supermajority voting provisions and customary
provided
provided
 
provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property, in each case contained in joint venture, partnership or limited liability company agreements, and (9) restrictions on cash or other deposits or net worth imposed by customers or lessors or required by insurance, surety or bonding companies, in each case, under contracts, leases or other agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business, and (10) those with respect to any Lien that is permitted to be incurred pursuant to .
Section 8.05
8.04 .
Financial Ratios
(a) . The Company shall not permit the Interest Coverage Ratio, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of the Company, to be less than 3.0 to 1.0.
Interest Coverage Ratio
(b) . The Company shall not permit the Leverage Ratio, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter of the Company, to be greater than 4.0 to 1.0.
Leverage Ratio
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the parties hereto acknowledge and agree that all calculations of, or compliance with, the financial covenants set forth above shall be made on a Pro Forma Basis.
8.05 .
Limitation on Liens, Etc
The Company shall not create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien, upon or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, in each case to secure any Debt of any Person or entity, other than:
(a) Liens arising in connection with the obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary under industrial revenue bonds;
(b) Liens on assets of a Subsidiary of a Borrower to secure Debt of such Subsidiary to any Borrower;
(c) Purchase money Liens claimed by sellers of goods on ordinary trade terms provided that no financing statement has been filed to perfect such Liens, and provided that no such Lien shall extend to assets of any character other than the goods being acquired;
(d) Liens securing Debt existing on the Closing Date.
(e) Liens securing Debt on property of a corporation or firm (or division thereof) that becomes a Subsidiary of the Company or of any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof in accordance with and existing at the time such corporation is merged or consolidated with the Company or any Subsidiary, at the time such corporation or firm (or division thereof) becomes a Subsidiary of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or at the time of a sale, lease or other disposition of the properties of a corporation or a firm (or division thereof) as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Subsidiary, provided that such Liens were not created in contemplation of such merger, consolidation, acquisition, sale, lease or disposition and do not extend to assets other than those of the Person merged into or consolidated with the Company or such Subsidiary or acquired by the Company or such Subsidiary;
Section 8.06
(f) Liens on life insurance policies owned by the Company or any Subsidiary, securing Insurance Policy Debt;
 
(g) Purchase money Liens constituting the interest of a lessor under a lease that would be capitalized on the lessee's balance sheet in accordance with GAAP, or under a sale-leaseback transaction, in each case relating to equipment, provided that after giving effect thereto, no Event of Default under shall exist;
Section 8.04
(h) Any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Liens referred to in the foregoing subsections (a), and (c) through (g); provided that, in the case of Liens referred to in the foregoing subsections (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g), the principal amount of Debt secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Debt so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement Lien shall be limited to all or a part of the property which is subject to the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property);
(i) Liens incurred in connection with Securitization Transactions; , that such Liens do not encumber any property other than the Receivables and Related Security relating to such Securitization Transactions; and
provided
(j) Additional Liens securing Debt other than as may be included in the foregoing subsections (a) through (i), provided, that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Debt shall not at any time exceed the greater of (A) $150,000,000 or (B) 15% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth at such time.
8.06 .
Merger; Sale of Assets
The Company shall not, and shall not permit its Material Subsidiaries to, merge or consolidate with or into any other Person, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter required), except that:
(a) the Company or a Material Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with or into any other Person; provided that, if the Company or a Designated Borrower is a party to such merger or consolidation, the Company or such Designated Borrower is the surviving entity;
(b) any Material Subsidiary that is a Designated Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets to, the Company or another Subsidiary, and any Material Subsidiary that is not a Designated Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of any or all of its assets to any other Person;
provided that (i) after giving effect to such merger, consolidation, sale or other disposition, no Default or Event of Default shall exist, and (ii) in the case of a transaction involving a Material Subsidiary, the assets to be sold or conveyed do not constitute all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; and
(c) the Company or any Material Subsidiary may transfer interests in accounts or notes receivable on a limited recourse basis in connection with Securitization Transactions.
For the avoidance of doubt, nothing contained in this Section 8.06 shall prohibit the ability of the Company and its Material Subsidiaries to sell inventory, machinery, equipment and other tangible assets and make Permitted Investments in the ordinary course of business.
 
8.07 .
Conduct of Business
The Company shall not, and shall not permit its Material Subsidiaries to, engage in any line of business other than (A) the businesses engaged in by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof, (B) the businesses of media, business services or business outsourcing and (C) any business or activities substantially similar or related thereto (which shall include, without limitation, other businesses related to the handling and/or distribution of data used or processed in the businesses engaged in by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof).
9.01 t.
Events of Defaul
If one or more of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
(a) A Borrower shall fail to pay when due any installment of principal of any Loan or any L/C Obligation required to be made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; or
(b) A Borrower shall fail to pay any fee under this Agreement, or any installment of interest on any Loan, within five (5) days after the due date thereof; or
(c) Any written representation or warranty, certification or statement made or deemed made by a Borrower herein or in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
(d) The Company shall fail to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in ,  or , , , , or or Article VIII (ii) any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement, other than as otherwise provided in this , on its part to be performed or observed if such failure in the case of this clause (ii) shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Company by the Administrative Agent or any Lender; or
Section 7.02(a)
(b)
(e)
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06
Section 6.01
(e) The Company or any Material Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt, any obligations in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or other similar instruments or any obligations pursuant to any Securitization Transaction, of the Company or such Material Subsidiary which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt arising under this Agreement), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt or other obligation; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt or other obligation and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt or other obligation; or any Debt or other such obligation in which the outstanding principal exceeds $100,000,000 shall be otherwise declared to be due and payable (by acceleration or otherwise) or required to be prepaid, redeemed, defeased or otherwise repurchased by the Company or any Material Subsidiary (other than by a regularly-scheduled required prepayment), or any offer to prepay, redeem, defease or purchase such Debt shall be required to be made, prior to the stated maturity thereof; or there occurs under any Swap Contract
 
an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which Company or any Material Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) and, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Company or such Material Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than $100,000,000; or
(f) (i) The Company or any Material Subsidiary (A) shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or (B) shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or (C) shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (ii) any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Company or any Material Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property, and in the event of any such proceeding instituted against the Company or any Material Subsidiary (but not instituted by it), such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days or shall result in the entry of an order for relief, the appointment of a trustee or receiver, or other action in such proceeding or result adverse to the Company or such Material Subsidiary, as applicable; (iii) the Company or any Material Subsidiary shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (f)(i)(B), (i)(C) or (ii); or
(g) Any Person, or a group of Persons acting in concert, shall at any time acquire beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Company; or
(h) (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of any Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any payment or payments, in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000, with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan; or
(i) One or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money, in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000 at any one time outstanding (exclusive of judgment amounts fully covered by insurance, to the extent the insurer has admitted liability in respect thereof), shall be rendered against the Company or any Material Subsidiary and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (ii) such judgments or orders shall not be discharged (or provision shall not have been made for such discharge), a stay of execution thereof shall not be obtained, or such judgments or orders shall not be paid or bonded, within 60 days from the date of entry thereof, and the Company or such Material Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall not, within such 60-day period, appeal therefrom and cause the execution thereof to be stayed pending such appeal; or
(j) Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or the Company or any Borrower contests the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or the Company or any Borrower denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document.
 
9.02 .
Remedies Upon Event of Default
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of any L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Company;
(c) require that the Company cash collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
(d) exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers under the Loan Documents or applicable law or equity;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Company or any Material Subsidiary under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Advances and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Company to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
9.03 .
Application of Funds
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ),
Section 9.02
Section 9.02
(a) any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuers and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Third
Third
 
, to (a) payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings and (b) Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuers in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Company or as otherwise required by law.
Last
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.03(d)
Fourth
10.01 .
Appointment and Authority
Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, and no Borrower shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
10.02 .
Rights as a Lender
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
10.03 .
Exculpatory Provisions
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
 
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Company, a Lender or an L/C Issuer.
Sections 9.02
11.01
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or documentor (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
,
Article V
10.04 .
Reliance by Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the applicable L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or such L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or such L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
10.05 .
Delegation of Duties
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
10.06 .
Resignation of Administrative Agent
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Company. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (a) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (b) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and each L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 11.04
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (i) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer, (ii) the retiring L/C Issuer shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (iii) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
 
10.07 .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
Each Lender and each L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and each L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
10.08 .
No Other Duties; Etc
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the bookrunners, arrangers, syndication agents, documentation agents or co-agents shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or L/C Issuer hereunder.
10.09 .
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Company, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on any Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations arising under the Loan Documents that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuers and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.03(i)
(j)
2.09
11.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and each L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, if the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
11.04
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or any L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or any L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or any L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
 
11.01 .
Amendments, Etc
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Company or any Borrower therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Company or the applicable Borrower, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that
provided
further
(a) no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
(i) extend or increase the Commitment of a Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender whose Commitment is being extended or increased (it being understood and agreed that a waiver of any condition precedent set forth in or of any Default or a mandatory reduction in Commitments is not considered an extension or increase in Commitments of any Lender);
Section 9.02
Section 5.02
(ii) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment (excluding mandatory prepayments) of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) or any scheduled reduction of the Commitments hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender entitled to receive such payment or whose Commitments are to be reduced;
(iii) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to clause (i) of the final proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender entitled to receive such amount; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or waive any obligation of any Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate;
Section 11.01
provided
however
(iv) change in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
Section 9.03
(v) change any provision of this or the definition of "Required Lenders" without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
Section 11.01(a)
(vi) amend or the definition of "Alternative Currency" without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; or
Section 1.06
(vii) release the Company from its Obligations hereunder, including those Obligations under Article IV, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; or
 
(b) unless also signed by the applicable L/C Issuer, no amendment, waiver or consent shall affect the rights or duties of such L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it;
(c) unless also signed by the Administrative Agent, no amendment, waiver or consent shall affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document;
, , that notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (i) the Fee Letters may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto, (ii) each Lender is entitled to vote as such Lender sees fit on any bankruptcy reorganization plan that affects the Loans, and each Lender acknowledges that the provisions of Section 1126(c) of the Bankruptcy Code of the United States supersedes the unanimous consent provisions set forth herein and (iii) the Required Lenders shall determine whether or not to allow a Borrower to use cash collateral in the context of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding and such determination shall be binding on all of the Lenders.
provided
however
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
11.02 .
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communications
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i) if to the Company or any other Borrower, the Administrative Agent or an L/C Issuer, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 11.02
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, facsimile number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire (including, as appropriate, notices delivered solely to the Person designated by a Lender on its Administrative Questionnaire then in effect for the delivery of notices that may contain material non-public information relating to the Company).
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other communications sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
 
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuers hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or any L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . Each of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuers may change its address, facsimile or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, facsimile or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Company, the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, facsimile number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public
Change of Address, Etc
 
Lender's compliance procedures and applicable law, including United States Federal and state securities laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
(e) .The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuers, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuers and Lenders
11.03 .
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies; Enforcement
No failure by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Loan Document (including the imposition of the Default Rate) preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided, and provided under each other Loan Document are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Borrowers or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with for the benefit of all the Lenders and the L/C Issuers; , , that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) the applicable L/C Issuer from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as L/C Issuer) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with (subject to the terms of ), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Borrower under any Debtor Relief Law; and , , that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in clauses (b), (c) and (d) of the preceding proviso and subject to , any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
Section 9.02
provided
however
Section 11.08
Section 2.13
provided
further
Section 9.02
Section 2.13
11.04 .
Expenses; Indemnity; and Damage Waiver
(a) . The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable, documented, out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery
Costs and Expenses
 
and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable, documented, out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuers in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all reasonable, documented, out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such reasonable, documented, out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
(b) . The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and reasonable, documented, out-of-pocket related expenses (including the reasonable, documented fees, charges and disbursements (A) one primary counsel for all Indemnitees in any one action and (B) one local counsel in each applicable jurisdiction unless, in each case, in the reasonable opinion of such counsel representation of all Indemnitees would be inappropriate due to the existence of an actual or potential conflict of interest owed to any unaffiliated third party) that may be incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including in respect of any matters addressed in ), (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the applicable L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by a Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to a Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by any Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto, in all cases, whether or not caused by or arising, in whole or in part, out of the comparative, contributory or sole negligence of the Indemnitee; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by any Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith or a material breach of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if such Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Company
Indemnitee
Section 3.01
provided
(c) . To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by them to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), an L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), such L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
 
expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or an L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Section 2.12(d)
(d) To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and each Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
(e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and any L/C Issuer, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
11.05 .
Payments Set Aside
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
11.06
Successors and Assigns.
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder or thereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the related Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $10,000,000 (and in increments of not less than $1,000,000 in excess thereof) unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's Loans and Commitments, and rights and obligations with respect thereto, assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations in respect of its Revolving Commitment (and the related Revolving Loans thereunder) on a non-pro rata basis;
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
 
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender with a Commitment in respect of the Commitment subject to such assignment, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender; and
(C) the consent of the L/C Issuers (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding).
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to (A) the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries, (B) any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing persons described in this clause (B) or (C) a natural person.
No Assignment to Company
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to any Person that, through its Lending Offices, is not capable of lending the applicable Alternative Currencies to the relevant Borrowers without the imposition of any additional Indemnified Taxes.
No Assignment Resulting in Additional Indemnified Taxes
(vii) In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans and participations in Letters of Credit in accordance with its Applicable Percentage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the
 
assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment). Upon request, each Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
11.04
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers (and such agency being solely for tax purposes), shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. In addition, the Administrative Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation, and revocation of designation of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the other Lenders and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in clauses (i) through (vii) of that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Participations
Participant
provided
provided
Section 11.01(a)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 11.08
provided
Section 2.13
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitation on Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
 
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment (or any foreclosure with respect thereto) shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Revolving Commitment and Revolving Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon thirty days' notice to the Company and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or, the Company shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer hereunder; , , that no failure by the Company to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer, (1) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer, and (2) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements reasonably satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Resignation as L/C Issuer after Assignment
provided
however
Section 2.03(d)
11.07 .
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers agree to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or any Eligible Assignee invited to become a Lender pursuant to or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Company and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Company, (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, any L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company, or (i) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any Person to whom or for whose benefit that such Lender pledges or assigns a security interest pursuant to .
Section 2.01(c)
Section 11.06(f)
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from a Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrowers or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any L/C Issuer on
Information
 
a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by such Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from a Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
provided
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuers acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable law, including Federal and state securities laws.
11.08 .
Set-off
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, each L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, after obtaining the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, such L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any and all of the obligations of such Borrower (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the obligations of the Company in its capacity as Guarantor) now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or such L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or such L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness; , that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff. The rights of each Lender, the L/C Issuers and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, the L/C Issuers or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and the L/C Issuers agree to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
Section 2.16
provided
11.09 .
Interest Rate Limitation
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
 
11.10 .
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 5.01
11.11 .
Survival of Representations and Warranties
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
11.12 .
Severability
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this , if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuers, as applicable, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
Section 11.12
11.13 .
Replacement of Lenders
If (i) any Lender requests compensation under , (ii) any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , (iii) a Lender (a "") does not consent to a proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination with respect to any Loan Document that has been approved by the Required Lenders as provided in but requires unanimous consent of all Lenders or all Lenders directly affected thereby (as applicable), (iv) a Lender does not consent to a proposed Designated Borrower pursuant to , (v) a Lender does not approve another Alternative Currency requested by the Company or (vi) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Company may, at its sole expense
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Non-Consenting Lender
Section 11.01
Section 2.14
,
 
and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 11.06
provided
(a) the Company shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 11.06(b)
(b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the applicable Borrower(s) (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable laws; and
(e) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a Non-Consenting Lender's failure to consent to a proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination with respect to any Loan Document under subclause (iii) above, the applicable replacement bank, financial institution or Fund consents to the proposed change, waiver, discharge or termination;
further, that the failure by such Lender to execute and deliver an Assignment and Assumption shall not impair the validity of the removal of such Lender and the mandatory assignment of such Non-Consenting Lender's Commitments and outstanding Loans and participations in L/C Obligations pursuant to this shall nevertheless be effective without the execution by such Lender of an Assignment and Assumption.
provided,
Section 11.13
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
11.14 .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
(a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
(b) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT ANY PARTY HERETO MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
(d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 11.02
11.15 .
Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
11.16 .
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), each of the Borrowers acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) each of the Borrowers has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) each of the Borrowers is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers each is and has been acting solely as a principal and,
 
except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the Borrowers hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
11.17 .
Electronic Execution of Assignments and Certain Other Documents
The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption or in any amendment or other modification hereof (including waivers and consents) shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
11.18 .
USA Patriot Act Notice
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Act. Each Borrower shall, promptly following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
11.19 .
Judgment Currency
If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
Agent from any Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOFthe parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
,
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
CREDIT AGREEMENT


