FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20101124170855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 24, 2010, the merger of Snoopy Acquisition, Inc. ("Merger Sub"), a wholly owned subsidiary of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company ("R.R. Donnelley"), with and into Bowne & Co., Inc. ("Bowne") (the "Merger") was consummated in accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 23, 2010, among Bowne, R.R. Donnelley and Merger Sub (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Bowne common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Bowne Common Shares"), was converted into the right to receive an amount in cash equal to $11.50 per Bowne Common Share. The aggregate value of the consideration paid to former holders of Bowne Common Shares in connection with the Merger upon the closing was approximately $487 million. Upon the closing of the Merger, Bowne became a wholly owned subsidiary of R.R. Donnelley and the Bowne Common Shares, which traded under the symbol "BNE", ceased trading on, and are being delisted from, the New York Stock Exchange.
The foregoing description of the Merger and the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto, and is incorporated into this Current Report by reference.
 
On November 24, 2010, R.R. Donnelley issued a press release announcing that it had completed its previously announced purchase of Bowne.
The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The financial statements required by this item are not being filed herewith. To the extent such information is required by this item, they will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
 
The pro forma financial information required by this item is not being filed herewith. To the extent such information is required by this item, it will be filed with the SEC by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K no later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Doug Fitzgerald, Executive Vice President Communications: Tel: 630-322-6830 E-mail: doug.fitzgerald@rrd.com
Investor Contact: Dave Gardella, Vice President Investor Relations: 312-326-8155 E-mail: david.a.gardella@rrd.com
RR DONNELLEY COMPLETES PURCHASE OF BOWNE & CO., INC.
today announced that it has completed its previously announced purchase of Bowne & Co. Inc., a provider of shareholder and marketing communications services.
CHICAGO, November 24, 2010  R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company (NASDAQ: RRD)
About RR Donnelley
RR Donnelley (NASDAQ:RRD) is a global provider of integrated communications. Founded more than 146 years ago, the company works collaboratively with more than 60,000 customers worldwide to develop custom communications solutions that reduce costs, enhance ROI and ensure compliance. Drawing on a range of proprietary and commercially available digital and conventional technologies deployed across four continents, the company employs a suite of leading Internet based capabilities and other resources to provide premedia, printing, logistics and business process outsourcing products and services to leading clients in virtually every private and public sector.
For more information, and for RR Donnelley's Corporate Social Responsibility Report, visit the company's web site at www.rrdonnelley.com.
Use of Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain "forward-looking statements" as defined in the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and any such forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the following cautionary statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this news release and are based on current expectations and involve a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements. Readers are strongly encouraged to read the full cautionary statements contained in RR Donnelley's filings with the SEC. RR Donnelley disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.


