FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20110523171235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 19, 2011.
(b) The following matters were voted upon at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
1. The election of the nominees for Directors was voted on by the Stockholders. The nominees, all of whom were elected, were Thomas J. Quinlan III, Stephen M. Wolf, Lee A. Chaden, Judith H. Hamilton, Susan M. Ivey, Thomas S. Johnson, John C. Pope, Michael T. Riordan and Oliver R. Sockwell. The Inspectors of Election certified the following vote tabulations:
 
2. The Stockholders voted to approve the advisory resolution on executive compensation. The Inspectors of Election certified the following vote tabulation:
 
3. The Stockholders voted, on an advisory basis, in favor of every year as the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation. The Inspectors of Election certified the following vote tabulation:
 
4. The Stockholders voted to ratify the Audit Committee's appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm to audit the financial statements of the Company for fiscal year 2011. The Inspectors of Election certified the following vote tabulation:
 
5. A stockholder proposal recommending preparation of a sustainable paper purchasing report was rejected by the Stockholders. The Inspectors of Election certified the following vote tabulation:
 
6. A stockholder proposal recommending preparation of a report regarding political contributions by the Company was rejected by the Stockholders. The Inspectors of Election certified the following vote tabulation:
 
7. A stockholder proposal recommending that the board of directors take steps to allow stockholders to take action by written consent was approved by the Stockholders. The Inspectors of Election certified the following vote tabulation:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


