FILE:RRD/RRD-8K-20120221065753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.03.    Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On February 16, 2012, the Board of Directors of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (the "Company") amended the Company's By-Laws, effective immediately, to require the Company's Secretary to call a special meeting of stockholders upon the request of one or more stockholders holding, individually or in the aggregate, at least 10% of the combined voting power of the Company's outstanding shares of capital stock, subject to satisfaction of certain procedural requirements set forth therein. Prior to this amendment, the By-Laws did not provide a mechanism whereby stockholders could effect the calling of a special stockholders meeting.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Amended and Restated By-Laws of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company, effective as of February 16, 2012
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

The principal office in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware, and the name of the resident agent in charge thereof is The Corporation Trust Company.
Section 1.1. Principal Office.
The corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Section 1.2. Other Offices.
The annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held for the purpose of electing Directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting in accordance with these By-laws at such date, time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors of the corporation from time to time.
Section 2.1. Annual Meeting.
Except as otherwise provided by statute or the certificate of incorporation, the only business which properly shall be conducted at any annual meeting of the stockholders shall (i) have been specified in the written notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given as provided in Section 2.4, (ii) be brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or the officer of the corporation presiding at the meeting or (iii) be brought before the meeting by a stockholder who shall have complied with the notice requirements specified in this Section. For business to be brought before the meeting by a stockholder, the business must have been specified in a written notice (a "Stockholder Meeting Notice") given to the corporation, in accordance with all of the following requirements, by or on behalf of any stockholder who is entitled to vote at such meeting. Each Stockholder Meeting Notice must be delivered personally to, or be mailed to and received by, the Secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation in the City of Chicago, State of Illinois, not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than 75 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made, whichever first occurs. Each Stockholder Meeting Notice shall set forth: (i) a description of each item of business proposed to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (ii) any material interest in such business of such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below), including any anticipated benefit to the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person, (iii) the name and record address of the stockholder proposing to bring such item of business before the meeting; (iv) the class and number of shares of stock held of record, owned beneficially and represented by proxy by such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person as of the record date for the meeting (if such date shall then have been made publicly available) and as of the date of such Stockholder Meeting Notice; (v) whether and the extent to which any derivative instrument, hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) has been made the effect or intent of any of which is to increase or decrease economic interest in the corporation's stock or manage the risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Persons with respect to the corporation's stock (which information shall be updated by such stockholder as of the record date for the meeting, such update to be provided not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting), (vi) a description of all contracts, arrangements, understandings or relationships between such stockholder and any Stockholder Associated Persons or between such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Persons and any other person or persons (including their names) that relate to the proposal of such business by such stockholder, (vii) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to introduce the item of business proposed to be brought before the meeting and (viii) all other information which would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission if, with respect to any such item of business, such stockholder were a participant in a solicitation subject to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. No business shall be brought before any annual meeting of stockholders of the corporation otherwise than as provided in this Section; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting. The person presiding at the annual meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts so warrant, determine that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section and, if such person should so determine, such person should so declare to the meeting and any such business so determined to be not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
"Stockholder Associated Person" shall mean, with respect to any stockholder, any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, under common control with or acting in concert with such stockholder.
Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute or by the certificate of incorporation, may be called by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Chairman and shall be called by the Secretary pursuant to . (i) a written request to the Secretary, submitted by one or more stockholders (each such request, a "Special Meeting Request") owning as of the date of such Special Meeting Request, in the aggregate, at least 10% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of all classes and series of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting, voting as a single class or (ii) a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board of Directors. In determining whether Special Meeting Requests have met the requirements of this Section 2.2, (i) multiple Special Meeting Requests will not be considered together if they relate to different items of business and (ii) all Special Meeting Requests relating to an item of business must have been dated and delivered to the Secretary within 60 days of the earliest dated Special Meeting Request relating to such item of business. Any notice relating to a special meeting appropriately called pursuant to this Section 2.2 shall describe the item or items of business to be considered at such special meeting. Business transacted at any special meeting shall be limited to the matters identified in the corporation's notice relating to such special meeting ; provided, however, that nothing herein shall prohibit the Board from submitting additional matters to the stockholders at any special meeting requested by the stockholders.
Section 2.2. Special Meetings.
A Special Meeting Request shall be signed by each stockholder, or duly authorized agent of each such stockholder, requesting the special meeting and shall set forth: (i) a brief description of each item of business desired to be brought before the special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the special meeting, (ii) any material interest of each stockholder requesting the special meeting in the business desired to be brought before the special meeting, (iii) the name and address of each stockholder requesting the special meeting, (iv) the class and number of shares of stock of the corporation which are owned, beneficially or of record, by each stockholder requesting the special meeting as of the date of the Special Meeting Request, (v) an agreement by each stockholder requesting the special meeting to notify the corporation immediately in the case of any disposition prior to the record date for the proposed special meeting of shares of stock of the corporation owned, beneficially or of record, and an acknowledgement that any such disposition shall be deemed a revocation of such Special Meeting Request with respect to such shares and (vi) any other information that would be required to be set forth with respect to an Annual Meeting in a Stockholder Meeting Notice, or updated, pursuant to Section 2.1 of these Bylaws and, if the purpose of the special meeting includes the election of one or more directors, Section 3.12.
A stockholder may revoke a Special Meeting Request at any time prior to the special meeting by written revocation delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the corporation; provided however, that if any such revocations are received by the Secretary and, as a result of such revocation, the number of un-revoked Special Meeting Requests no longer represents at least the requisite number of shares entitling the stockholders to request the calling of a special meeting pursuant to this Section 2.2, then the Board of Directors shall have the discretion to determine whether or not to proceed with the special meeting. If none of the stockholders who submitted a Special Meeting Request appears or sends a qualified representative to present the item of business submitted by the stockholders for consideration at the special meeting, such item of business shall not be submitted for vote of the stockholders at such special meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation or such stockholder(s). A Special Meeting Request shall not be valid (and the Board of Directors shall have no obligation to call a special meeting in respect of such Special Meeting Request) if it relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law, would violate the law, or would cause the company to violate the law.
The procedures set forth in this Section 2.2 are the exclusive means by which items of business may be raised by stockholders at a special meeting of stockholders.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a special meeting called by stockholders need not be held if either (i) the Board of Directors has called or calls for an annual meeting of stockholders to be held within 90 days after the date of receipt of one or more Special Meeting Requests representing the requisite number of shares for the calling of a special meeting (the "Meeting Request Date") and the Board determines in good faith that the business of such annual meeting includes (among any other matters properly brought forth before the annual meeting) the business specified in the Special Meeting Request or Requests or (ii) the item that is the subject of such Special Meeting Request or Requests was voted on at any meeting of stockholders held within 30 days prior to the Meeting Request Date (it being understood that, for purposes of this Section 2.2, the election or removal of directors shall be deemed the same item with respect to all items involving the election or removal of directors).
Any special meeting of the stockholders properly called in accordance with Section 2.2 of these By-laws shall be held at such date, time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time ; provided that, with respect to special meetings called by a stockholder or group of stockholders, the date of any such special meeting shall not be more than 90 days after the Meeting Request Date.
Section 2.3. Place of Special Meetings.
A written notice of each annual or special meeting of stockholders shall be given stating the date, time and place of the meeting and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the certificate of incorporation or these By-laws, such notice shall be given not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman or the President, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting, personally, by mail or, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, electronically. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the corporation.
Section 2.4. Notice of Meetings.
In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders (i) entitled (A) to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, (B) to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or (C) to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or (ii) for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which shall not be earlier than the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which (1) in the case of a determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, be not more than 60 nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting; and (2) in the case of any other action, shall be not more than 60 days before such action.
Section 2.5. Fixing Record Date.
If no record date is fixed, (i) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (ii) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting, but the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
The Secretary shall prepare, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the corporation. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
Section 2.6. Voting List.
The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the certificate of incorporation. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
Section 2.7. Quorum.
Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy filed with the Secretary before or at the time of the meeting. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
Section 2.8. Proxies.
When a quorum is present at any meeting of stockholders, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of the statutes, the certificate of incorporation or these By-laws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question. Every stockholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy. Every such stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock having voting power registered in such stockholder's name on the books of the corporation.
Section 2.9. Voting.
Shares of stock of the corporation standing in the name of another corporation, domestic or foreign, and entitled to vote may be voted by such officer, agent or proxy as the by-laws or other internal regulations of such corporation may prescribe or, in the absence of such provision, as the board of directors or comparable body of such corporation may determine. Shares of stock of the corporation standing in the name of a deceased person, a minor, an incompetent or a debtor in a case under Title 11, United States Code, and entitled to vote may be voted by an administrator, executor, guardian, conservator, debtor-in-possession or trustee, as the case may be, either in person or by proxy, without transfer of such shares into the name of the official or other person so voting. A stockholder whose shares of stock of the corporation are pledged shall be entitled to vote such shares, unless on the transfer records of the corporation, the pledgor has expressly empowered the pledgee to vote such shares, in which case only the pledgee, or the pledgee's proxy, may vote such shares.
Section 2.10. Voting of Stock of Certain Holders.
Stock of the corporation belonging to the corporation, or to another corporation a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of which are held by the corporation, shall not be voted at any meeting of stockholders and shall not be counted in the total number of outstanding shares for the purpose of determining whether a quorum is present. Nothing in this Section 2.11 shall limit the right of the corporation to vote shares of stock of the corporation held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Section 2.11. Treasury Stock.
.. Except as otherwise provided pursuant to the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock issued by the corporation, acting separately by class or series, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast (meaning the number of shares voted "for" a nominee must exceed the number of shares voted "against" such nominee) at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast (instead of by votes cast for or against a nominee) at any meeting at which a quorum is present for which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice in compliance with the applicable requirements for stockholder nominations for director set forth in these Bylaws that a stockholder proposes to nominate a person for election to the Board of Directors and (ii) such proposed nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth day preceding the date the corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders.
Section 2.12
Election of Directors
.. The director elected by the Board of Directors as its chairman (the "Chairman"), which position shall not be an officer of the corporation, shall preside at all meetings of stockholders.
Section 2.13
Chairman of the Board of Directors
The property and business of the corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the certificate of incorporation or by these By-laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 3.1. General Powers.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the responsibility of the Board of Directors to establish broad objectives and the general course of the business, determine basic policies, appraise the adequacy of overall results, and generally represent and further the interests of the corporation's stockholders and insure the most effective use of the corporation's assets.
Several examples of the responsibilities of the Board of Directors are as follows:
 
Establish broad corporation objectives and basic policies and maintain overall control of
the business. 
Make necessary revisions of the by-laws (in accordance with Article X).
Determine dividend action (in accordance with Article VIII).
Authorize necessary action with respect to issuance of new securities and listing securities for trading on exchanges.
Fix date, time and place of, and take other necessary action with respect to, meetings of stockholders (in accordance with Article II).
Approve issuance of stock certificates to replace those lost or destroyed (in accordance with Section 7.2).
Fill vacancies in the Board of Directors (in accordance with Sections 3.2 and 3.8).
Elect the officers of the corporation (in accordance with Section 4.2) and appraise their performance.
Determine the basic organization structure of the business.
Authorize any necessary action with respect to loans and pledging of assets (in accordance with Section 6.2).
Designate officers authorized to buy or sell corporate investment securities.
Designate persons authorized to execute contracts and other documents requiring signatures of officers or specific individuals (in accordance with Section 6.1).
Select, or designate those authorized to select, depositaries for corporate funds and investment securities and designate check signatories and persons authorized to have access to safe deposit boxes (in accordance with Sections 6.3 and 6.4).
Approve proposals to convey corporate-owned land or buildings or designate those authorized to take such action.
Designate the person or persons authorized to appoint proxies to vote stock in subsidiary and other concerns in which the corporation has a significant interest and the person or persons authorized to determine who shall serve as Directors in representing the parent corporation in such concerns.
Designate stock transfer agents, registrars, and paying agents with respect to corporate securities and other special purpose agents.
Procure special professional services required by and for the Board.
Provide for issuance of an annual report to stockholders and such other reports and notices as the Board deems advisable.
Employ, upon recommendation of the Audit Committee, independent public accountants to audit the corporation's financial statements.
Review and approve new employee benefit plans and major revisions of employee stock incentive plans.
Review and approve the actions of the Executive Committee as reported in the minutes of its meetings.
Approve the annual operating budget.
Review and approve the annual capital budget.
Direct the manner of handling matters outside the ordinary course of business of the corporation.
 
The number of Directors which shall constitute the Whole Board shall be fixed from time to time by a majority of the Whole Board, subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
Section 3.2. Number, Election and Term.
The term of office of all Directors shall be a one year term, expiring at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in each year. Each Director shall hold office until such Director's successor shall be elected and shall qualify or until such Director's earlier resignation or removal. Directors need not be residents of Delaware or stockholders.
"" shall mean the total number of authorized directorships, whether or not there exist any vacancies or unfilled previously authorized directorships.
Whole Board
The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, the President, or any two Directors. The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.3. Meetings.
 
Notice of any special meeting of the Board of Directors stating the place, date and time of the special meeting shall be given in writing to each Director, either personally, by mail or overnight courier, or by facsimile, telegram or cable or other means of electronic transmission, addressed to the Director's residence or usual place of business, not less than two days before the date of such meeting, or by such other means, whether or not in writing, and within such lesser period, as circumstances require in the reasonable judgment of the person calling the meeting. If mailed or sent by overnight courier, such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when it is deposited in the United States mail with first class postage prepaid or deposited with the overnight courier. Notice by telegram or cable shall be deemed given when the notice is delivered to the telegraph or cable company; notice by facsimile or other electronic transmission shall be deemed given when the notice is transmitted (except notice by email shall be deemed given only upon receipt). Any Director may waive notice of any meeting. The attendance of a Director at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice at such meeting, except where the Director attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting, unless otherwise provided by statute, the certificate of incorporation or these By-Laws.
Section 3.4. Notice.
A majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors, provided, that if less than a majority of the Whole Board is present at said meeting, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
Section 3.5. Quorum.
The act of the majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.6. Manner of Acting.
Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this section shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 3.7. Use of Communications Equipment.
Any Director may resign at any time upon written notice to the corporation. If any vacancy occurs in the Board of Directors caused by death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office of any Director, or otherwise, or if any new directorship is created by any increase in the authorized number of Directors, a majority of the Directors then in office, though less than a quorum may choose a successor or fill the newly created directorship; and a Director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until such Director's successor shall be duly elected and shall qualify or until such Director's earlier resignation or removal.
Section 3.8. Vacancies and Additional Directors.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of Directors. The Directors shall be paid their reasonable expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each such meeting and an annual retainer or salary for services as a director or committee member. Directors who are full-time employees of the corporation shall not receive any compensation for their services as such. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any Director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.
Section 3.9. Compensation.
The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, may designate not fewer than three nor more than seven Directors to constitute an Executive Committee. The Chief Executive Officer shall serve as the Chairman of the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee shall have and exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the corporation, except that such Committee shall not have the power to take specific actions which have been delegated to other committees of the Board and shall not be empowered to take action with respect to: declaring dividends; issuing bonds, debentures, or the borrowing of moneys except within limits expressly approved by the Board of Directors; amending by-laws; filling vacancies and newly created directorships in the Board of Directors; removing Directors of the corporation; mergers or consolidations; the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets of the corporation; dissolution; or any other action requiring the approval of stockholders. The designation of such Committee and the delegation thereto of authority shall not operate to relieve the Board of Directors or any member thereof of any responsibility imposed upon the Board or such member by law.
Section 3.10. Executive Committee.
The Board of Directors may designate two or more Directors to constitute committees (in addition to the Executive Committee provided for in Section 3.10 of these By-laws), including a Finance Committee, Human Resources Committee, Audit Committee and Corporate Responsibility and Governance Committee, which committees, to the extent permitted by law, shall have and exercise such authority as may be provided for in the resolutions creating such committee, as such resolutions may be amended from time to time.
Section 3.11. Other Committees.
Except as otherwise fixed pursuant to the certificate of incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock issued by the corporation, acting separately by class or series, to elect, under specified circumstances, Directors at a meeting of stockholders, nominations for the election of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 3.11 or by any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally. However, any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally may nominate one or more persons for election as Directors at a meeting at which Directors are to be elected only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been delivered personally to, or been mailed to and received by, the Secretary of the corporation at the principal executive offices of the corporation in the City of Chicago, State of Illinois, not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that, in the event that less than 75 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to stockholders, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made, whichever first occurs. Each such notice shall set forth: (i) the name and record address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination; (ii) the name, age, principal occupation or employment, business address and residence address of the person or persons to be nominated; (iii) the class and number of shares of stock held of record, owned beneficially and represented by proxy by such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person and by the person or persons to be nominated as of the record date for the meeting (if such date shall then have been made publicly available) and of the date of such notice; (iv) whether and the extent to which any derivative instrument, hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) has been made, the effect or intent of any of which is to increase or decrease economic interest in the corporation's stock or manage the risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, the stockholder who intends to make the nomination or any Stockholder Associated Persons with respect to the corporation's stock (which information shall be updated by such stockholder as of the record date for the meeting, such update to be provided not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting), (v) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (vi) a description of all contracts, arrangements, understandings or relationships between (a) the stockholder intending to make the nomination and any Stockholder Associated Person that relate to the nomination, (b) the stockholder intending to make such nomination and the proposed nominee and (c) the stockholder intending to make such nomination, the proposed nominee or any Stockholder Associated Person and any other person or persons (including their names) that relate to the nomination; (vii) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and (viii) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director of the corporation if so elected. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a Director of the corporation. The person presiding at the annual meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts so warrant, determine that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions of this Section, and if such person should so determine, such person should so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded. No person shall be eligible for election as a Director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
Section 3.12. Nomination of Directors.
The officers of the corporation shall be appointed or elected (a) in the manner set forth in this Article IV and in Article V hereof and (b) to the extent not so set forth, by the Board of Directors. The officers of the corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Executive Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, a Controller and such other officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person except the offices of President and Secretary. The Board of Directors may distinguish among officers bearing the same title by the addition of other designations, such as "Chief Financial Officer" or the like.
Section 4.1. Officers and Number.
Each officer shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board of Directors after the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding such officer's election, and until such officer's successor is elected and qualified or until such officer's earlier death, resignation or removal. Vacancies may be filled or new offices created and filled at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 4.2. Election and Term of Office.
Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby.
Section 4.3. Removal.
Except as provided in Article V hereof, a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled by the Board of Directors at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
Section 4.4. Vacancies.
No officer shall be prevented from receiving a salary for such officer's services as an officer by reason of the fact that such officer is also a Director of the corporation.
Section 4.5. Salaries.
The Chief Executive Officer shall have overall supervision of, and responsibility for, the business, and shall direct the affairs and policies of the corporation. In the absence of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and Board of Directors.
Section 4.6. Chief Executive Officer.
 
Subject to the supervision and direction of the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall have responsibility for such of the operations and other functions of the corporation as may be assigned to the President. The President shall perform such other duties and responsibilities as may be assigned to the President by the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 4.7. President.
Any Vice President elected by the Board of Directors shall have such corporate powers, if any, as may be assigned to such Vice President from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
Section 4.8. Vice Presidents.
Any Senior Vice President elected by the Board of Directors shall have such corporate powers, if any, as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
Section 4.9. Senior Vice Presidents.
Any Business Unit President elected by the Board of Directors shall have such corporate powers, if any, as may be assigned to such Business Unit President by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
Section 4.10. Business Unit Presidents.
The Board of Directors may designate as an Executive Vice President the officer to whom one or more other senior officers of the corporation reports.
Section 4.11. Executive Vice Presidents.
Such of the Directors of the corporation as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors, and in the order of such designation, shall in the absence of the Chairman perform the duties of the Chairman and shall have all of the powers and shall be subject to any restrictions imposed upon the Chairman.
Section 4.12. Order of Succession.
Such of the officers of the corporation as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors, and in the order of such designation, shall in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to any restrictions imposed upon the Chief Executive Officer.
Such of the officers of the corporation as may be designated by resolution of the Board of Directors, and in the order of such designation, shall in the absence of the President perform the duties of the President and when so acting shall have all the powers of and be subject to any restrictions imposed upon the President.
The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and Board of Directors of the corporation, shall have charge of the corporate records and the corporate seal, and shall have the power to attach the seal to all instruments which shall require sealing after the same shall have been signed as authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.13. Secretary.
 
The Treasurer shall be responsible for the receipt, custody and disbursement of all funds of the corporation in the form of both cash and securities. The Treasurer may delegate the details of the office of Treasurer to someone else, but this shall nowise relieve the Treasurer of the responsibilities and liability of the office of Treasurer. The Treasurer shall have the power to attach the seal to all instruments which shall require sealing after the same shall have been signed as authorized by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.14. Treasurer.
The Controller reports to the Chief Executive Officer directly or through such other management executives as the Chief Executive Officer may direct. The Controller, however, may directly submit any matter to the Board of Directors for its consideration. The Controller shall maintain adequate records of all assets, liabilities, and transactions of the corporation, and in conjunction with other officers and department heads, shall initiate and enforce measures and procedures whereby the business of the corporation shall be conducted with the maximum of safety, efficiency and economy.
Section 4.15. Controller.
The Chief Executive Officer may appoint any individual an officer having such title as the Chief Executive Officer shall deem appropriate, provided such officer is not an officer subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Any such officer appointed by the Chief Executive Officer may be removed by the Chief Executive Officer whenever in the Chief Executive Officer's judgment the best interests of the corporation would be served thereby. The term of office, compensation, powers and duties and other terms of employment of appointed officers shall be such as the Chief Executive Officer may from time to time deem proper, and the authority of such officers shall be limited to acts pertaining to the business of the unit, operation or function to which they are assigned.
The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 6.1. Contracts.
No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the corporation and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors (or a resolution of a committee of Directors pursuant to authority conferred upon that committee). Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 6.2. Loans.
 
All checks, demands, drafts or other orders for the payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such agent or agents of the corporation, and in such manner, as may be designated by the Board of Directors or by one or more officers of the corporation named by the Board of Directors for such purpose.
Section 6.3. Checks, etc.
All funds of the corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the corporation in such banks, trust companies and other depositaries as the Board of Directors may select or as any one or more officers of the corporation named by the Board of Directors for such purpose may select.
Section 6.4. Deposits.
Shares of the corporation's stock may be certificated or uncertificated. Any certificates of stock of the corporation shall be in such form as may be determined by the Board of Directors, shall be numbered and shall be entered in the books of the corporation as they are issued. Any such certificates shall exhibit the holder's name and number of shares and shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, or President or a Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary or the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer. If any stock certificate is signed manually (a) by a transfer agent other than the corporation or its employee or (b) by a registrar other than the corporation or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile.
Section 7.1. Certificates of Stock.
In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if such officer, transfer agent or registrar continued to be such at the date of issue. All certificates properly surrendered to the corporation for transfer shall be cancelled and no new certificates shall be issued to evidence transferred shares until the former certificate for at least a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and cancelled and the corporation reimbursed for any applicable taxes on the transfer, except that in the case of a lost, destroyed or mutilated certificate, a new one may be issued therefor upon such terms, and with such indemnification (if any) to the corporation, as the Board of Directors may prescribe specifically or in general terms or by delegation to a transfer agent for the corporation. Certificates shall not be issued representing fractional shares of stock.
The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost or destroyed upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost or destroyed certificates, or such owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost or destroyed.
Section 7.2. Lost Certificates.
Upon surrender to the corporation or the transfer agent of the corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Uncertificated shares shall be transferred upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of such uncertificated shares. Transfers of shares shall be made only on the books of the corporation by the registered holder thereof or by such holder's attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney and filed with the Secretary or transfer agent of the corporation.
Section 7.3. Transfers.
The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Section 7.4. Registered Stockholders.
Dividends upon the capital stock of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock, subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
Section 8.1. Declaration.
Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or such other purposes as the Directors shall think conducive to the interest of the corporation, and the Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
Section 8.2. Reserve.
 
Unless otherwise fixed by the resolution of the Board of Directors, the fiscal year of the corporation shall be the calendar year.
Section 9.1. Fiscal Year.
The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced.
Section 9.2. Seal.
The books of the corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the statutes) outside the State of Delaware at the principal executive offices of the corporation in the City of Chicago, State of Illinois, or at such other place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Section 9.3. Books.
These By-laws may be altered, amended or repealed at any regular meeting of the Board of Directors or at any special meeting of the Board of Directors if notice of such alteration, amendment or repeal be contained in the notice of such special meeting, provided that no amendment of these By-laws shall conflict with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, whether relating to the number of Directors which shall constitute the Whole Board or otherwise.
 


