FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20050412151408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Approval of Executive Incentive Compensation Plan as Amended and Restated
 
At the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Fiserv, Inc. (the "Company") which was held on April 6, 2005, the shareholders approved the Fiserv, Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated (the "Incentive Compensation Plan"). The Incentive Compensation Plan authorizes annual cash bonuses based on achievement of performance goals as described in the Incentive Compensation Plan. The Incentive Compensation Plan is effective for the year beginning January 1, 2005 and subsequent years thereafter unless and until terminated by the Company's Board of Directors.
 
A copy of the Incentive Compensation Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Approval of Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan as Amended and Restated
 
At the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company which was held on April 6, 2005, the shareholders approved the Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan, as amended and restated (the "Stock Plan"). The Stock Plan is effective as of February 16, 2005 until terminated by the Company's Board of Directors.
 
A copy of the Stock Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Not applicable.
 
(b) Not applicable.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


