FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20060802154157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
. .
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On August 1, 2006, Fiserv, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a consulting agreement with Kenneth R. Jensen, a Director of the Company and its former Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary. Under the agreement, the Company will pay Mr. Jensen $10,000 per month, and Mr. Jensen will provide consulting services, consisting of answering questions and providing expertise pertaining to areas of the Company's operations in which he has background and expertise. The agreement is scheduled to terminate on the first day of the month in which the Company's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders is held.
. .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Consulting Services Agreement ("Agreement") is made between Fiserv, Inc. ("Fiserv") and Kenneth R. Jensen ("Consultant") this 1st day of August, 2006. Consultant agrees to provide to Fiserv, and Fiserv is willing to accept, the following services pursuant to the charges, terms and conditions of this Agreement and attachments or exhibits hereto:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approved and accepted:
 
Governing Principles
Fiserv operates in an honest and ethical manner for the benefit of its shareholders by maintaining a workforce and work environment that is focused on producing quality products and providing quality service for our clients.
To foster mutually beneficial relationships with clients that, of necessity, rely on trust and loyalty, Fiserv strives to maintain long-term relationships with its employees, clients and suppliers based on:
in all our dealings with our fellow employees, shareholders, clients and suppliers through our consistent and careful adherence to all Fiserv policies and all applicable laws and regulations and consideration for the general good of all parties in instances where policy or other guidance is not clearly defined.
Fairness
in all actions and communications within our Corporation and with our suppliers and clients, including protecting our Corporation's and clients' confidential information and trade secrets.
Integrity
in our products and services, so our Corporation is the supplier of choice for products and services to our clients.
Quality
for our words and actions and a commitment to do what we say as representatives of our Corporation.
Responsibility
and compassion for our fellow employees, shareholders, clients and suppliers so that they are motivated to work enthusiastically for our mutual benefit.
Respect
Implementing Regulations
. The Fiserv, Inc. Code of Conduct sets forth principles to guide the operation of Fiserv's business, to deter wrongdoing and to promote honest and ethical conduct, full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure in reports filed by Fiserv with the Securities and Exchange Commission, compliance with applicable laws, the prompt internal reporting of violations of this Code of Conduct and accountability for adherence to this Code of Conduct. This Code of Conduct is applicable to all employees of Fiserv and its subsidiaries, including without limitation Fiserv's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and
Introduction
Corporate Controller. Operating a corporation in an honest, ethical and legal manner requires the constant effort and vigilance of all members of the organization under the leadership of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
. The Fiserv Board of Directors represents the Corporation's shareholders' interest in perpetuating a successful business, including optimizing long-term financial returns. The Audit Committee is ultimately responsible for overseeing the Compliance Officer and the interpretation and enforcement of this Code.
The Role of the Board
. Directors and employees should not place themselves in a position where their actions, personal interests, or actions/interests of those for whom they act are, or are likely to be, in actual or apparent conflict between personal and professional relationships involving the Corporation. Directors, officers and employees may not have any direct or indirect interest in any enterprise doing business with or competing with the Corporation, except when the interest has been fully disclosed to and approved by the Corporation prior to any such interested activity.
Conflicts of Interest
. All directors and employees agree upon their service as a director or employment to observe strict confidentiality with regard to all information they obtain in connection with their service as a director or employment regarding the financial condition and operating results, accounts, transactions, trade secrets or other business affairs of the Corporation or its clients.
Confidentiality
. The Corporation requires its financial personnel to record and report accurately, completely and timely all financial transactions involving the Corporation. Adherence to the Financial Policies Manual is a matter of mutual trust engaged in by all employees of the Corporation. A failure anywhere within the Corporation to do so is a breach of that trust not only to the Corporation's shareholders and the investing public who rely on the integrity of the Corporation's financial statements but also to all the other employees of the Corporation who are equally reliant upon the fundamental integrity of the Corporation and its processes.
Financial Integrity
. As a reporting company under the Federal securities laws, Fiserv is subject to rules governing public disclosure of material information, including Rule 10b-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Regulation FD. In keeping with those obligations, the Corporation pursues a policy of prompt, timely, full, accurate and understandable disclosure in all reports and documents Fiserv files with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other public communications made by Fiserv.
Financial Disclosure
. All employees of the Corporation are subject to the limitations on trading in the Corporation's outstanding securities while aware of material non-public information. In addition, directors and executive officers (and selected other officers) are subject to internal policies restricting the sale of Fiserv securities during certain "blackout" periods as well as pre-approvals of such sales. Directors and executive officers are also subject to filing requirements under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act and subject to the short-swing profits rules of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Directors and the Chief Operating Officer are
Trading in Securities
subject to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in connection with the sale of any Fiserv securities. The Corporation will cooperate fully in any investigation by any law enforcement agency, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the NASD, any stock exchange or any other law enforcement agency, of trading irregularities in the Corporation's Common Stock.
. The Corporation seeks at all times to comply with law, rules and regulations in all material respects. The effort to make Fiserv compliant with law is a joint effort of all employees from the Directors to the most junior employee. Thus, all employees of the Corporation are enjoined to report to their supervisor any instances of non-compliance with law by the Corporation or by any employee of the Corporation. Supervisors in turn are required to assure that such information is communicated to the business unit head and ultimately to the Compliance Officer, who will work with the internal departments in the Corporation charged with seeking to investigate and cure any such reported transgressions.
Compliance with Law Generally
. The Corporation seeks to maintain a workplace that respects the rights of all employees to succeed to their maximum potential. The Corporation does not discriminate on the grounds of race, sex, religion, national background or otherwise in hiring, rewarding or promoting employees.
Conduct in the Workplace
. All marketing and sales material developed and used by the Corporation in the marketplace must accurately and fairly describe the Corporation's products and services, their features, functionality and capabilities. In making sales presentations, responding to questions or otherwise in the sales process, Corporation representatives are not to spread negative, unfounded, unsubstantiated, rumored or otherwise unreliable or hostile information about a competitor. If asked a direct question about a competitor, responses should be limited only to known facts about a competitor, not speculation or rumor or, indefensibly, falsehood.
Conduct in the Marketplace
In foreign markets the Corporation adheres to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act that prohibits "special" payments to foreign governmental officials.
. As a means to enforce this Code of Conduct, all employees who are found in violation of any aspect of the Code of Conduct are subject to discipline, according to the Corporation's Corrective Action Policy, up to and including discharge.
Corrective Action
Accountability / Compliance
All employees, officers and directors of the Corporation are charged with the responsibility to comply with the Code of Conduct. This Code of Conduct must of necessity be self-enforcing. Nevertheless, violations of this Code of Conduct should be reported promptly to the Compliance Officer identified below. The Corporation, through the Audit Committee, has also established a procedure for reporting, including anonymously, of complaints or concerns about questionable financial, accounting or auditing matters. The Compliance Officer investigates all such violations and complaints and reports regarding such matters, as appropriate, to the Audit Committee. Those who do not choose to adhere to this Code of
Conduct or who impede adherence by others should remove herself or himself from Fiserv voluntarily or they will subject themselves to the Corporation's Corrective Action Policy, as mentioned above.
No retribution will be taken against an employee or Director for providing information or assisting in an investigation the employee or Director reasonably believed constituted a violation of this Code of Conduct. Any employee or Director threatening, harassing, or in any way discriminating against another employee or Director for reporting such a matter in good faith will be disciplined.
To assure ongoing adherence to the Code of Conduct, the Board of Directors has appointed the head of Corporate Human Resources as its Compliance Officer to receive information concerning violations or alleged violations of this Code of Conduct, interpret and enforce the Code of Conduct, and assist employees in learning, understanding and accepting the Code of Conduct so that the Code of Conduct is applied in the daily conduct of their duties.
Fiserv employs both proactive and remedial measures to attempt to ensure compliance with its Code of Conduct by all members of the organization under the leadership of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
Annually, each appropriate officer or Director of the Corporation is required to disclose any potential conflicts of interest. For the protection of its information regarding the accounts, transactions, trade secrets or other business affairs of the company or its clients, each new employee of the Corporation is required to enter into a confidentiality agreement.
As a means to enforce its Code of Conduct, all employees who are found in violation of any aspect of the Code of Conduct will be subject to discipline, including according to the Corporation's Corrective Action Policy, up to and including discharge or removal.
Adoption / Publication
This Code of Conduct has been adopted by Fiserv's Board of Directors by a majority of the Directors on March 24, 2003 and amended on February 18, 2004. Fiserv's Board of Directors must similarly adopt any amendments to, or waivers of, this Code of Conduct.
In compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, this Code of Conduct is or will be published by inclusion as an exhibit to Fiserv's Annual Report on Form 10-K or by posting on Fiserv's website, , in the area generally addressing Investor information. Any amendments to the Code of Conduct will be published by filing a Current Report on Form 8-K within five business days of such amendment or by posting such amendment, or a description of such amendment, on Fiserv's website.
www.Fiserv.com
Any waivers or implicit waivers duly approved by the Board of Directors will be published within five business days of the granting of such waiver, or such shorter time period as may be required by Securities and Exchange Commission rules, with a brief description of the nature of and reasons for the waiver, the name of the person to whom the waiver was granted and
the date of the waiver by posting on Fiserv's website, , in the area generally addressing Investor information or by filing a Current Report on Form 8-K. For purposes hereof, a "waiver" shall mean the approval by the Board of Directors of a material departure from a provision of this Code of Conduct and an "implicit waiver" shall mean Fiserv's failure to take action within a reasonable period of time regarding a material departure from a provision of this Code of Conduct that has been made known to an executive officer of Fiserv. Any waiver involving a related party transaction will also require the approval of the Audit Committee.
www.Fiserv.com
Conclusion
Fiserv is always seeking to do better and to improve. It will do so only through the efforts of its entire community.


