FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20060425163429.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
        Fiserv, Inc. (the "Company") will enter into a Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement ("KEESA") with Thomas J. Hirsch effective May 1, 2006 in connection with his appointment as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer as described in Item 5.02(c) below. The KEESA provides that Mr. Hirsch is entitled to benefits if, within three years after a change in control of the Company (as defined in the KEESA), Mr. Hirsch's employment is ended through (i) termination by the Company, other than by reason of death or disability or for cause (as defined in the KEESA) or (ii) termination by Mr. Hirsch for good reason (as defined in the KEESA). The benefits provided are (i) a cash termination payment of (a) two times the sum of Mr. Hirsch's annual salary plus (b) his highest annual bonus during the three years before the change in control and (ii) continuation for up to three years of life, disability, hospitalization, medical and dental insurance coverage as in effect at the termination. The KEESA provides that if any portion of the benefits under the KEESA or any other agreement for Mr. Hirsch would constitute an "excess parachute payment" for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code, then Mr. Hirsch will have the option either to receive the total payments and pay the 20% excise tax imposed by the Internal Revenue code or to have the total payments reduced such that Mr. Hirsch will not be required to pay the excise tax. The foregoing description of the KEESA is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the KEESA, a copy of which is filed by reference as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 Exhibit
Number

News Release
[GRAPHIC OMITTED]
For more information contact: Media Relations: Christina Dokos 262-879-5022 Investor Relations: Dave DeClark 262-879-5316 For immediate release: Apr. 25, 2006
        Fiserv, Inc. (Nasdaq: FISV) today announced that Thomas Hirsch will become its new chief financial officer effective July 1, 2006, replacing Kenneth Jensen, who is retiring after 22 years with the company. Mr. Hirsch was also named executive vice president and appointed to the management committee, effective May 1, 2006. Mr. Jensen, who announced his retirement last November, has agreed to serve as a special consultant to the CEO following his retirement.
Brookfield, Wis., Apr. 25, 2006
        "Having ongoing access to Ken's deep experience and knowledge of the company will provide a great benefit for management and shareholders alike," said Jeff Yabuki, president and CEO of Fiserv, Inc.
        Additionally, the company promoted James Cox to the new position of executive vice president, mergers and acquisitions to be effective on May 1, 2006, and to succeed Mr. Jensen on July 1, 2006. Mr. Cox most recently served as group president of Fiserv Health and is a member of the management committee.
        Mr. Hirsch joined Fiserv in 1994 and served most recently as senior vice president and corporate controller, where he also had responsibility for the investor relations and treasury functions. Prior to joining the company, Mr. Hirsch spent eight years with Deloitte & Touche USA LLP, serving large, multi-national clients. Mr. Hirsch has a master's degree in business administration and a bachelor's degree in finance and accounting from the University of Wisconsin. He is also a certified public accountant.
Fiserv, Corporate Headquarters, 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045 PH: 262-879-5000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 979, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53008-0979 Internet: www.fiserv.com
News Release
[GRAPHIC OMITTED]
        "I am pleased to have Tom in this key leadership role," said Mr. Yabuki. "He brings a broad base of company knowledge and financial experience to the position, along with a solid reputation for integrity and expertise in the financial community."
        Mr. Cox joined Fiserv in 2001 as the result of an acquisition and was most recently group president, Fiserv Health. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Cox was managing partner of Lund Koehler Cox & Arkema, LLP, now part of Virchow Krause & Company, the 15 largest CPA firm in the U.S. As a CPA, Mr. Cox frequently advised clients on their merger and acquisition programs.
th
        "Jim has played a significant role in building our health business both through acquisitions and organically," Mr. Yabuki said. "He brings a wealth of demonstrated acquisition experience to the position complemented by the business rigor that only comes from having line leadership experience. Jim brings great perspective to the role."
ABOUT FISERV
        Fiserv, Inc. (Nasdaq: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management systems and services to the financial and health benefits industries. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, business process outsourcing, software and systems solutions. 
        The company serves more than 17,000 clients worldwide and is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2005 and 2004 FinTech 100 surveys.
        Fiserv Health provides health plan management, pharmacy benefits management, and BPO services to the managed care market and self-funded commercial and government employers and health plans.
        Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., Fiserv reported more than $4 billion in total revenue for 2005. For more information, please visit
www.fiserv.com.
Fiserv, Corporate Headquarters, 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045 PH: 262-879-5000 Mailing Address: P.O. Box 979, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53008-0979 Internet: www.fiserv.com


