FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20070725161617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 25, 2007, Fiserv, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For more information contact:
Investor Relations:
David Banks 262-879-5055
Media Relations:
Lori Stafford 262-879-5130
For immediate release:
July 25, 2007
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading provider of technology solutions, today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2007.
Brookfield, Wis., July 25, 2007
Total revenues increased 12 percent to $1.18 billion for the second quarter of 2007 compared with $1.06 billion in 2006. For the first six months of 2007, total revenues were $2.37 billion compared with $2.12 billion in 2006.
Total earnings per share for the second quarter of 2007 were $0.64, with earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.62. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2007 increased 15 percent to $0.68 compared with $0.59 in 2006. Total earnings per share for the first six months of 2007 were $1.30, with earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.25. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.31 in the first six months of 2007 compared with $1.20 in 2006. Adjusted earnings per share in 2007 exclude a $0.06 charge in the insurance segment in the second quarter of 2007.
Overall adjusted operating margin for the quarter increased 110 basis points to 23.4 percent compared with 22.3 percent in the prior year. Financial segment adjusted operating margin was up 180 basis points to 25.4 percent for the quarter and was up 240 basis points to 25.1 percent for the first six months compared with the prior period. Adjusted internal revenue growth for the financial segment was 5 percent for the quarter.
"Our businesses delivered solid performance in the quarter and we remain on track to achieve our full-year targets," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "Our financial segment once again led the company's performance with continued growth in revenue and margin expansion."
Other business and operating highlights for the second quarter of 2007 included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FISERV INVESTMENT SUPPORT SERVICES (FISERV ISS) SALE IMPACT
As announced previously, the company also signed definitive agreements in the quarter to sell its Fiserv ISS operations in two separate transactions. One transaction is expected to close by the end of 2007 and the other in early 2008. The company anticipates gross proceeds from the transactions of approximately $350 million (approximately $250 million after taxes and transaction-related expenses). This amount includes return of the net capital and excludes contingent payments. The company also has the opportunity to earn additional cash consideration of up to $100 million in 2008 based on the achievement of certain revenue targets over the twelve months subsequent to closing.
Fiserv ISS results are reported in discontinued operations. Fiserv ISS generated $0.02 in earnings per share in the quarter. Those results were negatively impacted by incremental transaction-related expenses of $1.6 million, or $0.01 per share in the quarter.
"The announced sale of our Fiserv ISS business will allow us to better focus on businesses where we have a clear long-term competitive advantage. We will redeploy the capital from the sale to enhance long-term shareholder value," said Yabuki.
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2007
The company has revised its full-year 2007 continuing operations earnings per share guidance to reflect the results of Fiserv ISS as discontinued operations. This guidance excludes the charge of $16.9 million ($0.06 per share) in the second quarter in the insurance segment:
 
"The announced sale of Fiserv ISS should be slightly accretive to our 2007 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations growth rate. We now expect full-year growth within a range of 14-17 percent over 2006," said Yabuki.
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL
The company will discuss its second quarter 2007 results on a conference call and web cast at 4 p.m. CDT on July 25. To register for the event and to access supporting materials, go to and click on the link for the event in the "Upcoming Events" Section of the home page. From there, click "Access Event."
www.fiserv.com
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The company reports its financial results in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company uses certain non-GAAP performance measures, including "adjusted earnings per share," "free cash flow," "adjusted internal revenue growth," and "adjusted operating income and margin," to provide investors a more complete understanding of the company's underlying operational results. These non-GAAP measures are indicators that management uses to provide additional meaningful comparisons between current results and prior reported results, and as a basis for planning and forecasting for future periods. The company believes these adjusted measures are more indicative of the company's operating performance. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable measures prepared in accordance with GAAP in the United States.
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management systems and services to the financial and insurance industries. Leading services include transaction processing,
 
outsourcing, business process outsourcing (BPO), software and systems solutions. The company serves more than 18,000 clients worldwide and is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., Fiserv reported more than $4.4 billion in total revenue for 2006. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the timing of, and proceeds from, the sale of Fiserv ISS, and estimated adjusted earnings per share in 2007. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may adversely affect the company's results include, among others, the company's ability to complete the sale of the Fiserv ISS business, changes in clients' demand for the company's products or services, pricing or other actions by competitors, the potential impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives, general changes in economic conditions and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
Adjusted earnings per share is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it presents the impact of certain transactions or events that management expects to occur infrequently, or to adjust for items in order to provide meaningful comparisons between current results and prior-year reported results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow
Free cash flow is measured as net income excluding discontinued operations, plus share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, less capital expenditures, plus or minus changes in working capital-net as reported in the company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it measures the company's cash flow after it has satisfied the capital requirements of its operations.
 
 
 
 
Adjusted operating income and margin are non-GAAP financial measures that the company believes are useful to investors because they provide more insight into how management views the underlying operating performance of the company and presents the impact of certain transactions or events that management expects to occur infrequently, or to adjust for items in order to provide meaningful comparisons between current results and prior-year reported results. In analyzing the company's performance, management excludes the impact of pass-through customer reimbursements and prescription product costs that are presented in revenue and expenses under GAAP.
 
 
Actual and adjusted internal revenue growth percentages are non-GAAP financial measures that the company believes are useful to investors because they present internal revenue growth both including and excluding customer reimbursements and prescription product costs that must be presented in revenue under GAAP. In addition, the company believes that the presentation of its adjusted internal revenue growth rate both including and excluding flood claims processing revenue is useful to investors because it enables them to understand the impact of these revenues, which can significantly impact the company's internal revenue growth rate.
 
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
Financial Segment
Financial segment revenues were $754 million in the quarter, up 6 percent compared with 2006. Financial segment adjusted internal revenue growth was 5 percent for the quarter. Operating income increased 14 percent to $166 million in the quarter.
Year-to-date adjusted operating margins were 25.1 percent, up 240 basis points compared with 2006. Adjusted operating margins for the quarter were up 180 basis points to 25.4 percent compared with the second quarter of 2006. The increase in operating income and margins in 2007 was driven primarily by strong growth in the company's banking and payment processing businesses.
Insurance Segment
Insurance segment revenues were $426 million for the quarter, an increase of 22 percent compared with the second quarter of 2006. Adjusted internal revenues in the insurance segment declined by 2 percent in the quarter, due primarily to the ongoing competitive pressure in the large national accounts client portion of the health plan management businesses.
Insurance segment adjusted operating income was $32 million in the second quarters of both 2007 and 2006. Adjusted operating income in the second quarter of 2007 excluded $17 million of charges related to the termination of an investment in a new technology platform ($13 million) in the health plan management business and other facility shutdown and severance expenses ($4 million) in the insurance segment. These charges had a negative impact of $0.06 per share in the quarter.
FISV-E
 


