FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20071024162141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On October 24, 2007, Fiserv, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
For more information contact:
Investor Relations:
David Banks 262-879-5055
Media Relations:
Lori Stafford 262-879-5130
For immediate release:
October 24, 2007
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading provider of technology solutions, today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2007.
Brookfield, Wis., Oct. 24, 2007
Total revenues increased 5 percent to $1.17 billion for the third quarter compared with $1.12 billion in 2006. For the first nine months of 2007, total revenues were up 9 percent to $3.54 billion compared with $3.24 billion in 2006.
Total earnings per share for the third quarter were $0.73. Earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter were $0.72, an increase of 20 percent compared with $0.60 in 2006. Total earnings per share for the first nine months of 2007 were $2.02, with earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.97. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.03 in the first nine months of 2007 compared with $1.80 in 2006.
Overall adjusted operating margin increased 240 basis points to 24.6 percent for the quarter, and was 23.5 percent for the first nine months of 2007, an increase of 90 basis points compared with the prior-year period. Financial segment adjusted operating margin increased 300 basis points to 26.8 percent for the quarter, and was 25.7 percent for the first nine months of 2007, an increase of 260 basis points compared with the prior-year period.
The adjusted internal revenue growth rate for the quarter in the financial segment was 3 percent. This growth rate was negatively impacted in the quarter by continuing pressures in the U.S. mortgage markets which affected the company's mortgage-related processing businesses.
"Financial segment performance and proactive management led to strong earnings growth," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "While third quarter internal revenue growth was negatively impacted by market conditions, we are pleased with the continuing strong results of our core processing and payments products."
 
OTHER BUSINESS AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACQUISITIONS
On Aug. 2, 2007, the company announced a $4.4 billion all-cash acquisition of CheckFree Corporation, a leading provider of financial e-commerce services and products. On Oct. 15, the company received early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust regulations. On Oct. 23, CheckFree stockholders voted to approve the transaction. This transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter.
On Sept. 21, 2007, Fiserv announced the acquisition of WorkingRx in order to strengthen its workers' compensation pharmacy transaction processing business in its insurance segment. WorkingRx helps pharmacies nationwide reduce the administrative time spent on workers' compensation claims processing.
 
On Oct. 15, 2007, Fiserv announced its acquisition of BancIntelligence, the only online advisory solution for financial institutions that provides automated analysis and web-based strategy development to more than 500 clients located in 49 states.
"We have made significant progress in enhancing our product and services offerings with a goal of providing the greatest value to clients," said Yabuki. "We will continue to shape our business model to strengthen our leadership position in serving the financial services industry."
OUTLOOK FOR 2007
As previously indicated at the company's investor day on Oct. 2, 2007, the company's full-year 2007 continuing operations adjusted earnings per share guidance is anticipated to be at the low end of its previously communicated range of $2.74 to $2.82 per share, due primarily to the sharp downturn in the U.S. mortgage market, which negatively impacted the company's lending businesses. Weak performance in the company's insurance segment in the second half of the year also impacted earnings per share guidance. The full-year guidance excludes the second quarter charge of $16.9 million ($0.06 per share) in the insurance segment.
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL
The company will discuss its third quarter 2007 results on a conference call and web cast at 4 p.m. CDT on Oct. 24. To register for the event, go to and click on the link for the event in the "Upcoming Events" section of the home page. From there, click "Access Event."
www.fiserv.com
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The company reports its financial results in accordance with GAAP. In addition, the company uses certain non-GAAP performance measures, including "adjusted earnings per share," "free cash flow," "adjusted internal revenue growth," and "adjusted operating income and margin," to provide investors a more complete understanding of the company's underlying operational results. These non-GAAP measures are indicators that management uses to provide additional meaningful comparisons between current results and prior reported results, and as a basis for planning and forecasting for future periods. The company believes these adjusted measures are more indicative of the company's operating performance. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable measures prepared in accordance with GAAP in the United States.
 
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management systems and services to the financial and insurance industries. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, business process outsourcing (BPO), software and systems solutions. The company serves more than 18,000 clients worldwide and is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., Fiserv reported more than $4.4 billion in total revenue for 2006. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the timing of, and proceeds from, the sale of the Fiserv ISS business, the completion of the CheckFree acquisition, and estimated adjusted earnings per share in 2007. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may adversely affect the company's results include, among others, the company's ability to complete the sale of the Fiserv ISS business, the company's ability to complete the CheckFree acquisition and to integrate its operations, changes in clients' demand for the company's products or services, pricing or other actions by competitors, the potential impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives, general changes in economic conditions and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
Adjusted earnings per share is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it presents the impact of certain transactions or events that management expects to occur infrequently, or to adjust for items in order to provide meaningful comparisons between current results and prior-year reported results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow
Free cash flow is measured as net income, excluding discontinued operations, plus share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, less capital expenditures, plus or minus changes in working capital-net as reported in the company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it measures the company's cash flow after it has satisfied the capital requirements of its operations.
 
 
 
 
Adjusted operating income and margin are non-GAAP financial measures that the company believes are useful to investors because they provide more insight into how management views the underlying operating performance of the company and presents the impact of certain transactions or events that management expects to occur infrequently, or to adjust for items in order to provide meaningful comparisons between current results and prior-year reported results. In analyzing the company's performance, management excludes the impact of pass-through customer reimbursements and prescription product costs that are presented in revenue and expenses under GAAP.
 
 
Actual and adjusted internal revenue growth percentages are non-GAAP financial measures that the company believes are useful to investors because they present internal revenue growth both including and excluding customer reimbursements and prescription product costs that must be presented in revenue under GAAP. In addition, the company believes that the presentation of its adjusted internal revenue growth rate both including and excluding flood claims processing revenue is useful to investors because it enables them to understand the impact of these revenues, which can significantly impact the company's internal revenue growth rate.
 
 
 
FISV-E
 


