FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20080206162211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2008, Fiserv, Inc. (the "Company") completed the sale (the "Transaction") of Fiserv Trust Company and the accounts of the Company's institutional retirement plan and advisor services operations, the majority of the Fiserv Investment Support Services ("Fiserv ISS") business, to TD AMERITRADE Online Holdings Corp. ("TD Ameritrade") pursuant to the terms of a Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 24, 2007, between the Company and TD Ameritrade (the "Agreement"). The Company received $225 million in cash at closing, plus the amount of acquired regulatory capital, and is entitled to receive contingent cash consideration of up to $100 million based on the achievement of revenue targets over the twelve months subsequent to closing. The Company expects to complete the sale of the remainder of the Fiserv ISS business to Robert Beriault Holdings, Inc. by the end of the second quarter of 2008.
The foregoing description of the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. There are representations and warranties contained in the Agreement which were made by the parties to each other as of specific dates. The assertions embodied in these representations and warranties were made solely for purposes of the Agreement and may be subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by the parties in connection with negotiating its terms. Moreover, certain representations and warranties may not be accurate or complete as of any specified date because they are subject to a contractual standard of materiality that is different from certain standards generally applicable to shareholders or were used for the purpose of allocating risk between the parties rather than establishing matters as facts. Therefore, you should not rely on the representations and warranties contained in the Agreement as statements of factual information.
 
On February 6, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Transaction is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Pro forma financial information
Pro forma financial information reflecting the sale of Fiserv ISS is not required because the results of operations from, and assets and liabilities related to, Fiserv ISS were reported as discontinued operations in the financial statements contained in the Company's Form 8-K, dated November 13, 2007, and the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007.
Exhibits
The following exhibits are being filed or furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For more information contact:
Investor Relations:
David Banks
Vice President Investor Relations
262-879-5055
david.banks@fiserv.com
Media Relations:
Lori Stafford
Assistant Vice President Corp. Comm.
262-879-5130
lori.stafford@fiserv.com
For immediate release:
February 6, 2008
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading provider of information management systems and services solutions, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year. The 2007 financial results reflect the dispositions of certain businesses, including Fiserv Health, which was reported as discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2007 and for all prior periods presented.
Brookfield, Wis., Feb. 6, 2008
Total revenues increased 19 percent to $1.11 billion for the fourth quarter compared with $930.1 million in 2006. For the full year, revenues were $3.92 billion, up 10 percent compared with $3.57 billion in 2006. Adjusted internal revenue growth in the company's financial segment was 4 percent in the fourth quarter and 5 percent for the full year 2007.
GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2007 were $0.58 per share, including $0.54 from continuing operations, compared with $0.52 in 2006. GAAP earnings per share for 2007 were $2.60 per share, including $2.42 from continuing operations, compared with $2.19 in 2006.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.69 for the fourth quarter of 2007, compared with $0.58 for the fourth quarter of 2006, an increase of 19 percent. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2007 were $2.66, compared with $2.31 for 2006, an increase of 15 percent.
Overall adjusted operating margin increased 110 basis points to 25.8 percent for the fourth quarter, and was 26.1 percent for the full year, an increase of 100 basis points compared with the prior year. Financial segment adjusted operating margin increased 200 basis points to 27.0 percent for the quarter, and for the full year was up 270 basis points to 27.1 percent compared to the prior year periods.
"Our fourth quarter financial results validate the strength of our recurring-revenue business model and cap a very strong year," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "We delivered on our financial goals while significantly re-shaping the company to enhance our financial profile."
 
ACQUISITION AND DIVESTITURE ACTIVITY
Fiserv recently completed a number of transformative transactions:
 
 
 
 
"We made great progress over the last year, focusing the company in areas that have attractive growth characteristics and will translate to more value for our clients," said Yabuki. "We will continue to refine our mix of businesses to strengthen our leadership position in serving the financial services industry."
OTHER BUSINESS AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2008
Fiserv expects full-year 2008 adjusted earnings from continuing operations to be within a range of $3.33 to $3.47 per share, which represents growth of 25 to 30 percent compared with adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.66 in 2007. Fiserv expects full-year 2008 overall company adjusted internal revenue growth of 5 to 7 percent, with the financial segment at the upper end of the range and the insurance segment at the lower end of the range.
"We expect to achieve strong results in 2008 even in the face of market variability," said Yabuki. "And given the nature of our business model, we believe we are positioned to achieve similarly strong results in 2009."
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL
The company will discuss its fourth quarter and full-year 2007 results on a conference call and web cast at 4 p.m. CST on Feb. 6. To register for the event and to access supporting materials, go to
 
and click on the link for the event in the "Upcoming Events" section of the home page. From there, click "Access Event."
www.fiserv.com
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
We supplement our reporting of total revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations, net income and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "free cash flow," and "adjusted internal revenue growth," in this earnings release. Management believes that certain non-cash or unusual adjustments to revenues or expenses and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenues and expenses enhance the evaluation of our performance, because they are not pertinent to day-to-day operational decisions made in the business. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share in calculating these non-GAAP measures.
Examples of such non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to: non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, and merger and integration expenses, all offset by the cumulative income tax impact of these items. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the daily management of our operations, and our management uses such results to evaluate the impact of operational business decisions. We regularly report adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various business units.
For a discussion of free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth, please see pages 10 and 12, respectively. We believe this supplemental information is useful to investors for their independent evaluation and understanding of the performance of our management and our core business performance. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations, net income and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
About Fiserv, Inc.
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management and electronic commerce systems and services to the financial and insurance industries. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, electronic bill payment and presentment, investment management solutions, business process outsourcing (BPO), software and systems solutions. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., the company is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit
 
unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. In 2007, the company completed the acquisition of CheckFree, a leading provider of electronic commerce services. Fiserv reported nearly $4 billion in total revenue from continuing operations for 2007. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the timing of, and proceeds from, the sale of discontinued operations, and anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and adjusted internal revenue growth in 2008 and 2009. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may adversely affect the company's results include, among others, the company's ability to complete the sale of the remainder of the Fiserv ISS business, the company's ability to successfully integrate CheckFree's operations, changes in clients' demand for the company's products or services, pricing or other actions by competitors, the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives, general changes in economic conditions and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K and its most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP performance measures.
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP performance measures and the footnotes on pages 9 and 12 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income.
 
Free cash flow is measured as net income, excluding discontinued operations, plus share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, less capital expenditures, plus or minus net changes in working capital as reported in the company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Free cash flow has also been adjusted for CheckFree financing and other non-recurring items, including the payment of $30 million to settle treasury-lock hedge contracts entered into in connection with the financing of the acquisition of CheckFree and non-recurring payments of $4 million related to certain one-time liabilities assumed on the opening balance sheets of acquired companies. Management believes it is appropriate to exclude these payments from the calculation of free cash flow since they are not indicative of the future free cash flow performance of Fiserv.
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP performance measures and the footnotes on pages 9 and 12 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income.
 
 
 
Actual and adjusted internal revenue growth percentages are non-GAAP financial measures that the company believes are useful to investors because they present internal revenue growth both including and excluding one large contract termination fee recognized in 2005, as well as customer reimbursements and prescription product costs that must be presented in revenue under GAAP. In addition, the company believes that the presentation of its adjusted internal revenue growth rate both including and excluding flood claims processing revenue is useful to investors because it enables them to understand the impact of these revenues, which can significantly impact the company's internal revenue growth rate.
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP performance measures and footnotes on page 9 for explanations of adjustments to revenues and operating income.
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP performance measures and footnotes on pages 9 and 12 for explanations of adjustments to revenues and operating income.
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP performance measures and footnotes on page 9 for explanations of adjustments to revenues and operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
FISV-E
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 TD AMERITRADE Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: AMTD) and Fiserv, Inc. (Nasdaq: FISV) announced today that TD AMERITRADE has completed its purchase of Fiserv's Investment Support Services (ISS) business for approximately $225 million in cash plus the amount of acquired regulatory capital. Additionally, based upon achievement of certain revenue targets over the next 12 months, there is an earn-out of up to $100 million payable to Fiserv.
Omaha, Neb. and Brookfield, Wis., February 4, 2008
The acquisition adds approximately $25 billion in client assets to TD AMERITRADE, including $15 billion held in more than 75,000 accounts managed by approximately 500 independent Registered Investment Advisors (RIAs) and $10 billion held in more than 2,000 plans administered by 80 independent third party administrators (TPAs).
"This deal reinforces our client segmentation strategy and signifies our commitment to grow and invest in the RIA community," said Tom Bradley, president, TD AMERITRADE Institutional.
The purchased business adds scale to TD AMERITRADE Institutional, the third largest provider of comprehensive brokerage and custody services in one of the fastest growing segments of financial services. The institutional business now holds over $100 billion in assets under management with over 4,500 RIAs and their clients.
With the inclusion of Fiserv Trust Company, TD AMERITRADE Institutional also adds significant growth to its 401(k) custody business. Skip Schweiss, executive vice president of Fiserv ISS, will direct TD AMERITRADE Institutional's efforts at the newly acquired Fiserv Trust Company, reporting to Tom Bradley.
Fiserv, Inc.
"We believe this deal will enhance services for clients," said Jeffery Yabuki, president and chief executive officer of Fiserv. "At the same time, we will continue to expand our technology leadership position across the financial services industry."
Fiserv, Inc. also expects to close the previously announced transaction with Robert Beriault Holdings, Inc. by the end of the second quarter of 2008.
 
AMTD-G
About TD AMERITRADE Institutional
TD AMERITRADE Institutional is a leading provider of comprehensive brokerage and custody services to more than 4,500 fee-based, independent Registered Investment Advisors (RIAs) and their clients. Our advanced technology platform, coupled with personal support from our dedicated service teams, allows investment advisors to run their practices more efficiently and effectively while optimizing time with clients.
1
About TD AMERITRADE Holding Corporation
TD AMERITRADE Holding Corporation, through its brokerage subsidiaries, provides a dynamic balance of investment products and services that make it the investment firm of choice for millions of retail investor and independent registered investment advisor (RIA) clients. Listed by as the #1 Web browser-based online broker and as one of America's best big companies, the Company offers a full spectrum of investment services, including a leading active trader program, intuitive long-term investment solutions and a national branch system, as well as relationships with one of the largest independent RIA networks. The Company's common stock trades under the ticker symbol AMTD. For more information, please visit .
2
Barron's
Forbes
3
www.amtd.com
About Fiserv, Inc.
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management and electronic commerce systems and services to the financial and insurance industries. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, electronic bill payment and presentment, investment management solutions, business process outsourcing (BPO), software and systems solutions. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., the company serves more than 21,000 clients worldwide and is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. In 2007, the company completed the acquisition of CheckFree, a leading provider of electronic commerce services. Fiserv and CheckFree had more than $4.5 billion in combined pro forma total revenue for 2006. For more information, please visit
www.fiserv.com.
FISV-G
 
 
 


