FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20080430163009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 30, 2008, Fiserv, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
For more information contact:
Investor Relations:
David Banks 262-879-5055
Media Relations:
Lori Stafford 262-879-5130
For immediate release:
April 30, 2008
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading provider of information technology solutions for the financial and insurance industries, today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2008. First quarter results include new operating business segments which reflect the company's significant 2007 transformation activity, including the broad expansion of its existing payment-related businesses resulting primarily from the acquisition of CheckFree and the dispositions of several businesses.
Brookfield, Wis., April 30, 2008
Total revenues increased 39 percent to $1.31 billion for the first quarter of 2008 compared with $944 million in 2007. Adjusted internal revenue growth in the quarter was 4 percent for the overall company, and a combined 4 percent for the two new segments focused on the Financial Industry: the Financial Institution Services segment and the Payments and Industry Products segment.
GAAP earnings per share for the first quarter of 2008 were $1.99, including $1.40 from discontinued operations due primarily to gains on dispositions, compared with $0.66 in 2007 which included $0.07 from discontinued operations. Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were up 26 percent to $0.78 for the quarter compared with $0.62 for the first quarter of 2007.
Adjusted operating margin increased 200 basis points to 25.0 percent in the quarter as compared to the first quarter of 2007. The margin expansion resulted primarily from continuing improvements in the business mix, CheckFree results, and a continuing focus on operating efficiencies.
"Our results for the first quarter are indicative of a strong start to 2008," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "We have significantly re-shaped our business mix over the last 12 months while continuing to make progress against our Fiserv 2.0 initiatives. Our solid performance in the quarter is even more distinctive given the challenges of the economic environment on our mortgage-related businesses."
 
Also during the quarter, Fiserv and Bank of America agreed to an extension of their strategic relationship for Fiserv to provide bill payment services to 2013.
"We are pleased to continue our relationship with Bank of America, helping them enhance their leading position serving consumers in online banking and bill payment," Yabuki added.
FIRST QUARTER BUSINESS AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2008
"We have revised our 2008 revenue and earnings per share guidance to reflect the new terms in our electronic bill payment contract with Bank of America which had not been considered in our previous guidance," said Yabuki. "We expect the new contract to provide long-term, multi-year revenue growth as bill payment volumes and consumer subscribers continue to grow."
Due to the revised terms of the Bank of America agreement, Fiserv now expects full-year 2008 adjusted earnings from continuing operations to be within a range of $3.28 to $3.40 per share, which represents growth of 23 to 28 percent compared with adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.66 in 2007, and full-year 2008 adjusted internal revenue growth of 4 to 6 percent.
 
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL
The company will discuss its first quarter 2008 results on a conference call and web cast at 4 p.m. CDT on April 30. To register for the event and to access supporting materials, go to www.fiserv.com and click on the link for the event in the "Upcoming Events" section of the home page. From there, click "Access Event."
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
We supplement our reporting of total revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "adjusted operating margin," "free cash flow," and "adjusted internal revenue growth," in this earnings release. Management believes that adjustments for certain non-cash or unusual revenue or expense items, and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenues and expenses, enhance our shareholders' ability to evaluate our performance because such items do not reflect how we manage our operations. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share to calculate these non-GAAP measures.
Examples of such non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to, non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, and merger and integration expenses, all offset by the income tax impact of these items. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the management of our operations. We regularly report our adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various businesses.
Free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth are described in detail on page 10. We believe this supplemental information enhances our shareholders' ability to evaluate and understand our core business performance. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management and electronic commerce systems and services to the financial and insurance industries. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, electronic bill payment and presentment, investment management solutions, business process outsourcing (BPO), software, risk management and systems solutions. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., the company is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. In 2007, the company completed the acquisition of CheckFree, a leading provider of electronic commerce services. Fiserv reported nearly $4 billion in total revenue from continuing operations for 2007. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding the timing of, and proceeds from, the sale of discontinued operations, anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and adjusted internal revenue growth in 2008, and bill payment transaction growth. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may adversely affect the company's results include, among others, the company's ability to complete the sale of the remainder of the Fiserv ISS business, the company's ability to successfully integrate CheckFree's operations, changes in clients' demand for the company's products or services, pricing or other actions by competitors, the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives, general changes in economic conditions and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information and the footnotes on pages 6 and 10 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income. On April 28, 2008, the company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K in which it provided historical quarterly results for the company's new segments. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
Adjusted internal revenue growth percentage is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it presents internal revenue growth excluding postage reimbursements in the company's output solutions business, prescription product costs that must be presented in revenue under GAAP and the deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment.
 
Free cash flow is measured as net income, excluding discontinued operations, plus share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, less capital expenditures, plus or minus net changes in working capital as reported in the company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Free cash flow has also been adjusted for after-tax non-recurring payments of $5 million related to merger costs and certain one-time liabilities assumed on the opening balance sheets of acquired companies. Management believes it is appropriate to exclude these payments from the calculation of free cash flow because they are not indicative of the future free cash flow performance of the company.
 
 
 
 
 
FISV-E
 


