FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20081028163249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2008, Fiserv, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.2 is unaudited consolidated financial information for the Company for 2007 and 2008 which has been recast to report certain insurance businesses that are now held for sale as discontinued operations. The presentation of the Company's historical financial information in Exhibit 99.2 is consistent with the presentation of the Company's financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. In this regard, following Fiserv's sale of a majority interest in its insurance businesses ("Fiserv Insurance") on July 14, 2008, Fiserv reports its 49% share of net income from Fiserv Insurance as "income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate."
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For more information contact:
Investor Relations:
David Banks
Vice President Investor Relations
262-879-5055
David.banks@fiserv.com
Media Relations:
Lori Stafford-Thomas
Asst. Vice President Corp. Communications
262-879-5130
Lori.stafford@fiserv.com
For immediate release:
Oct. 28, 2008
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading provider of information technology solutions to the financial industry, today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2008. These financial results reflect the disposition of a 51% interest in Fiserv's insurance operations ("Fiserv Insurance") and beginning on July 15, 2008 the company no longer consolidates the revenues and expenses associated with Fiserv Insurance.
Brookfield, Wis., Oct. 28, 2008 
Total GAAP revenue was $1.08 billion for the third quarter compared with $924 million in 2007. Revenue for the year to date was up 32 percent to $3.68 billion compared with $2.79 billion in the prior year period.
GAAP earnings per share for the third quarter were $0.48, including a $0.15 after-tax loss from the sale of the majority interest in Fiserv Insurance due to tax expense associated with the sale, as compared with $0.73 in 2007. GAAP earnings per share for the first nine months of 2008 were $3.08, including $1.41 from discontinued operations, compared with $2.02 in 2007, which included $0.11 from discontinued operations.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were up 16 percent to $0.81 compared with $0.70 for the third quarter of 2007. For the first nine months of the year, adjusted earnings per share were up 23 percent to $2.44 compared with $1.98 in 2007. Adjusted internal revenue growth was flat for the third quarter and up 2 percent for the year to date excluding Fiserv Insurance.
Adjusted operating margin increased 120 basis points to 26.5 percent in the third quarter, and increased 160 basis points to 25.9 percent for the first nine months of 2008 compared with the prior-year periods. The margin expansion resulted primarily from
 
 
favorable changes in the company's business mix, including the addition of CheckFree, which was acquired in December of 2007; operating leverage associated with the company's business model; and capital and expense management across all business lines.
"Overall, we are pleased with our earnings and free cash flow results for both the quarter and year to date, which are consistent with our expectations. At the same time, internal growth continues to be challenged by market conditions impacting certain areas of our business," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "Our business, which is well insulated by our long-term recurring revenue model and a diversified client base, continues to produce earnings and cash flow growth in the current environment."
THIRD QUARTER BUSINESS AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2008
Fiserv expects its full-year 2008 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations to be within a narrowed range of $3.28 to $3.32, which represents growth of 23 to 24 percent compared with adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.67 in 2007. The company expects fourth quarter 2008 adjusted internal revenue growth of 1 to 3 percent.
"We continue to be on track to achieve our earnings guidance for the year while delivering exceptional free cash flow," said Yabuki. "We expect to meet our earnings commitments while continuing to invest in products and services which help our clients achieve success and spur future growth."
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL
The company will discuss its third quarter 2008 results on a conference call and Webcast at 4 p.m. CDT on Oct. 28. To register for the event go to and click on the Q3 Earnings Webcast icon. Supplemental materials and an accompanying presentation will be available in the "For Investors" section of the website.
www.fiserv.com
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
We supplement our reporting of total revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "adjusted operating margin," "free cash flow," "adjusted internal revenue growth," and "adjusted internal revenue growth excluding Fiserv Insurance" in this earnings release. Management believes that adjustments for certain non-cash or unusual revenue or expense items, and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenues and expenses, enhance our shareholders' ability to evaluate our performance because such items do not reflect how we manage our operations. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share to calculate these non-GAAP measures. In addition, we report "adjusted internal revenue growth excluding Fiserv Insurance" because we recently sold a majority interest in our Insurance segment and, accordingly, believe that these results reflect the performance of our remaining primary operations.
 
 
Examples of such non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to, non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, and merger and integration expenses. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the management of our operations. We regularly report our adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various businesses.
Free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth are described in detail on page 11. We believe this supplemental information enhances our shareholders' ability to evaluate and understand our core business performance.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
About Fiserv, Inc.
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management and electronic commerce systems and services to the financial industry. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, electronic bill payment and presentment, investment management solutions, business process outsourcing (BPO), software, risk management and systems solutions. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., the company is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. In 2007, the company completed the acquisition of CheckFree, a leading provider of electronic commerce services. Fiserv reported nearly $4 billion in total revenue from continuing operations for 2007. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding, anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted internal revenue growth in 2008 and integrated sales and operational effectiveness targets for 2008. Statements can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "should," or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may adversely affect the company's results include, among others, the company's ability to complete, and the timing of and the proceeds from, the sale of the remainder of the Fiserv ISS business, the company's ability to
 
 
successfully integrate CheckFree's operations, changes in clients' demand for the company's products or services, pricing or other actions by competitors, the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives, the health and stability of the financial services industry, a general economic slowdown and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information and the footnotes on pages 7 and 11 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
 
Adjusted internal revenue growth percentage is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it presents internal revenue growth excluding postage reimbursements in the company's output solutions business and the deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment. See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
The free cash flow calculation above has been adjusted for certain non-recurring payments totaling $25 million in the first nine months of 2008 related to after-tax merger costs and certain one-time liabilities assumed on the opening balance sheets of acquired companies. Management believes it is appropriate to exclude these payments from the normal calculation of free cash flow because they may not be indicative of the future free cash flow of the company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FISV-E
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 


