FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20080729164713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2008, Fiserv, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For more information contact:
Investor Relations:
David Banks 262-879-5055
Media Relations:
Lori Stafford 262-879-5130
For immediate release:
July 29, 2008
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading provider of information technology solutions to the financial and insurance industries, today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2008 which include the results of the CheckFree acquisition.
Brookfield, Wis., July 29, 2008
Total revenues increased 38 percent to $1.30 billion for the second quarter of 2008 compared with $939 million in 2007. For the first six months of 2008, revenues were $2.61 billion, up 38 percent compared with $1.88 billion in 2007. Adjusted internal revenue growth was 2 percent for the quarter and 3 percent for the first half of 2008 in the combined Financial Institution Services and Payments and Industry Products segments.
GAAP earnings per share for the second quarter were $0.60 compared with $0.64 in 2007, which included $0.02 from discontinued operations. GAAP earnings per share for the first six months of 2008 were $2.60, including $1.41 from discontinued operations due to gains on dispositions, compared with $1.30 in 2007, which included $0.08 from discontinued operations.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were up 26 percent to $0.83 compared with $0.66 for the second quarter of 2007. For the first six months of the year, adjusted earnings per share were also up 26 percent to $1.61 compared with $1.28 for the first six months of 2007.
Adjusted operating margin increased 150 basis points to 25.5 percent in the second quarter, and was 25.2 percent for the first six months of 2008, an increase of 170 basis points compared with the prior year period. The margin expansion resulted primarily from favorable changes in the company's business mix and a continuing focus on operating efficiency.
"Our strong results in the quarter once again demonstrated the resiliency of our business model anchored by stable, recurring revenues and expense leverage" said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "In addition to delivering on our earnings commitments, our integration activities are progressing well, leading to increasingly more attractive market opportunities. We are very
 
pleased with our progress to date and remain optimistic about our full-year results."
In July, Fiserv completed the sale of a 51 percent interest in its insurance business to Trident IV, LP, a private equity fund managed by Stone Point Capital LLC. Fiserv received approximately $510 million in net after-tax proceeds and retains a 49 percent equity interest in the business. Fiserv will no longer consolidate revenue and expenses from the insurance business, and will report its 49 percent share of net earnings as a separate income statement line item.
"The Fiserv 2.0 business transformation we envisioned nearly two years ago continued this quarter with the sale of a majority interest in our insurance business," Yabuki said. "This transaction allows us to intensify our focus on delivering mission critical products and services within the broad financial services and payments landscape."
SECOND QUARTER BUSINESS AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2008
Fiserv continues to expect full-year 2008 adjusted earnings from continuing operations to be within a range of $3.28 to $3.40 per share, which represents growth of 23 to 28 percent compared with adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.66 in 2007. This adjusted EPS range includes the impact of the sale of a majority interest in the company's insurance business, which the company expects to be dilutive by 2-3 cents for the year depending on reinvestment of proceeds. The company expects full-year 2008 adjusted internal revenue growth to be at the low end of its 4 to 6 percent range, which now excludes the results from the insurance segment.
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL
The company will discuss its second quarter 2008 results on a conference call and web cast at 4 p.m. CDT on July 29. To register for the event and to access supporting materials, go to and open the link for the event in the "Upcoming Events" section of the home page. From there, click "Access Event."
www.fiserv.com
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
We supplement our reporting of total revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "adjusted operating margin," "free cash flow," and "adjusted internal revenue growth," in this earnings release. Management believes that adjustments for certain non-cash or unusual revenue or expense items, and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenues and expenses, enhance our shareholders' ability to evaluate our performance because such items do not reflect how we manage our operations. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share to calculate these non-GAAP measures.
Examples of such non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to, non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, and merger and integration expenses. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the management of our operations. We regularly report our adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various businesses.
 
Free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth are described in detail on page 10. We believe this supplemental information enhances our shareholders' ability to evaluate and understand our core business performance.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
About Fiserv, Inc.
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management and electronic commerce systems and services to the financial and insurance industries. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, electronic bill payment and presentment, investment management solutions, business process outsourcing (BPO), software, risk management and systems solutions. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., the company is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. In 2007, the company completed the acquisition of CheckFree, a leading provider of electronic commerce services. Fiserv reported nearly $4 billion in total revenue from continuing operations for 2007. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding, anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and adjusted internal revenue growth in 2008. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may adversely affect the company's results include, among others, the company's ability to complete, and the timing of and the proceeds from, the sale of the remainder of the Fiserv ISS business, the company's ability to successfully integrate CheckFree's operations, changes in clients' demand for the company's products or services, pricing or other actions by competitors, the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives, the health and stability of the financial services industry, a general economic slowdown and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information and the footnotes on pages 6 and 10 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
Adjusted internal revenue growth percentage is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it presents internal revenue growth excluding postage reimbursements in the company's output solutions business, prescription product costs that must be presented in revenue under GAAP and the deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment.
 
Free cash flow is measured as net income, excluding discontinued operations, plus share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, less capital expenditures, plus or minus net changes in working capital as reported in the company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Free cash flow has also been adjusted for after-tax non-recurring payments of $11 million in the first six months of 2008 related to merger costs and certain one-time liabilities assumed on the opening balance sheets of acquired companies. Management believes it is appropriate to exclude these payments from the calculation of free cash flow because they are not indicative of the future free cash flow performance of the company.
 
 
 
 
FISV-E
 


