FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20080111144126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On January 10, 2008, Fiserv, Inc. ("Fiserv") completed the sale (the "Transaction") of the outstanding shares of Fiserv Health, Inc. ("Fiserv Health") to United Healthcare Services, Inc. ("United") pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement, dated November 1, 2007 (the "Agreement"), for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $721 million in cash at closing which reflects initial adjustments for net working capital and certain indebtedness of Fiserv Health and its subsidiaries as of the closing.
The Transaction includes the sale of the following businesses to United: Fiserv Health Plan Administration, a third party administrator of self-funded health plans; Fiserv Health Plan Management, an outsourcing service for mid-sized health plans and health care payer organizations; Innoviant, a prescription benefits administrator; Innoviant Pharmacy, a prescription mail-order service; Avidyn Health, a care management company; BP, Inc., a managing general underwriter for stop loss products; Innovative Cost Solutions, a claim resolution company that negotiates claims from non-network providers; J.W. Hutton, Inc., a subrogation and overpayment recovery organization; and ppoONE, Inc., a claim re-pricing and data management service.
The foregoing description of the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. There are representations and warranties contained in the Agreement which were made by the parties to each other as of specific dates. The assertions embodied in these representations and warranties were made solely for purposes of the Agreement and may be subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by the parties in connection with negotiating its terms. Moreover, certain representations and warranties may not be accurate or complete as of any specified date because they are subject to a contractual standard of materiality that is different from certain standards generally applicable to shareholders or were used for the purpose of allocating risk between the parties rather than establishing matters as facts. Therefore, you should not rely on the representations and warranties contained in the Agreement as statements of factual information.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Transaction is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Pro forma financial information
The pro forma financial information required by this item is filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Exhibits
The following exhibits are being filed or furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
N E W S    R E L E A S E
 
(For Immediate Release)
(January 10, 2008)  UnitedHealthcare, a UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) company, and Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV) announced today that they have completed the sale of substantially all of Fiserv's health-related businesses to UnitedHealthcare. The transaction includes Fiserv Health, a leading administrator of medical benefits, Avidyn Health, a care facilitation business, and the Fiserv Health Specialty Solutions businesses. Fiserv Health's Pharmacy Benefits Management business (PBM) Innoviant is also part of the transaction.
Minneapolis, Minnesota and Brookfield, Wisconsin
Ken Burdick, president and chief executive officer of UnitedHealthcare, said, "Fiserv Health brings dedicated resources and strong management expertise in serving customers seeking highly customized benefits packages. Their capabilities strengthen our offerings and enhance our flexibility in this important area of business."
 
Jeffery Yabuki, president and chief executive officer of Fiserv, Inc., said, "UnitedHealthcare was the right partner for these businesses and their customers, and should provide enhanced opportunities for Fiserv Health employees."
About UnitedHealth Group
UnitedHealth Group (NYSE: UNH) is a 50 diversified health and well-being company dedicated to making health care work better. Through its family of businesses, UnitedHealth Group serves more than 70 million individuals nationwide. Visit for more information.
Fortune
www.unitedhealthgroup.com
About UnitedHealthcare
UnitedHealthcare () provides a full spectrum of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services. The company organizes access to quality, affordable health care services on behalf of more than 26 million individual consumers, contracting directly with more than 550,000 physicians and care professionals and 4,800 hospitals nationwide to offer consumers broad, convenient access to services nationwide. UnitedHealthcare is one of the businesses of UnitedHealth Group.
www.unitedhealthcare.com
About Fiserv, Inc.
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management and electronic commerce systems and services to the financial and insurance industries. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, electronic bill payment and presentment, investment management solutions, business process outsourcing (BPO), software and systems solutions. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., the company serves more than 21,000 clients worldwide and is the leading provider of core processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 FinTech 100 surveys. In 2007, the company completed the acquisition of CheckFree, a leading provider of electronic commerce services. Fiserv and CheckFree had more than $4.5 billion in combined pro forma total revenue for 2006. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FISV-G
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release may contain statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook that constitute "forward-looking" statements as defined under U.S. federal securities laws. Generally the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "will" and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historical in nature. These statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and uncertainties. We caution that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause UnitedHealth Group's actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Some factors that could cause results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include: the potential consequences of the findings announced on October 15, 2006 of the investigation by an
 
Independent Committee of directors of our historic stock option practices; the consequences of the restatement of our previous financial statements, related governmental reviews, including a formal investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and review by the Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Congressional committees, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York and Minnesota Attorney General, a related review by the Special Litigation Committee of the Company, and related shareholder derivative actions, shareholder demands and purported securities and Employee Retirement Income Security Act class actions, the resolution of matters currently subject to an injunction issued by the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, a purported notice of acceleration with respect to certain of the Company's debt securities based upon an alleged event of default under the indenture governing such securities, and recent management and director changes, and the potential impact of each of these matters on our business, credit ratings and debt; increases in health care costs that are higher than we anticipated in establishing our premium rates, including increased consumption of or costs of medical services; heightened competition as a result of new entrants into our market, and consolidation of health care companies and suppliers; events that may negatively affect our contract with AARP; uncertainties regarding changes in Medicare, including coordination of information systems and accuracy of certain assumptions; funding risks with respect to revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid programs; failure to achieve business growth targets, including membership and enrollment; increases in costs and other liabilities associated with increased litigation, legislative activity and government regulation and review of our industry; our ability to execute contracts on competitive terms with physicians, hospitals and other service providers; regulatory and other risks associated with the pharmacy benefits management industry; failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, which could result in the loss of existing customers, difficulties in attracting new customers, difficulties in determining medical costs estimates and appropriate pricing, customer and physician and health care provider disputes, regulatory violations, increases in operating costs, or other adverse consequences; possible impairment of the value of our intangible assets if future results do not adequately support goodwill and intangible assets recorded for businesses that we acquire; potential noncompliance by our business associates with patient privacy data; misappropriation of our proprietary technology; failure to complete or receive anticipated benefits of acquisitions; and change in debt to total capital ratio that is lower or higher than we anticipated.
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. A further list and description of some of these risks and uncertainties can be found in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any or all forward-looking statements we make may turn out to be wrong. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Except to the extent otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements present the effect of the disposition of certain health businesses ("Fiserv Health") by Fiserv, Inc. ("Fiserv") for approximately $775 million, before payment of taxes and transaction expenses and working capital adjustments. In addition, the following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements present the effect of the acquisition of CheckFree Corporation ("CheckFree") by Fiserv for approximately $4.4 billion paid in cash at closing, the issuance of long-term debt by Fiserv to fund the acquisition, and Fiserv's pending disposition of Fiserv Investment Support Services ("Fiserv ISS"), in two transactions, for approximately $355 million payable in cash at closing before payment of taxes and transaction expenses. Fiserv completed its disposition of Fiserv Health on January 10, 2008 and its acquisition of CheckFree on December 3, 2007. With respect to the disposition of Fiserv ISS, Fiserv expects to close the transaction with TD Ameritrade Online Holdings Corp. in the first quarter of 2008 and to close the transaction with Robert Beriault Holdings, Inc. by the end of the second quarter of 2008.
Fiserv ISS has been classified as held for sale and the related results of discontinued operations are excluded from Fiserv's historical results in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income presented do not reflect the anticipated net gain resulting from the sale of Fiserv ISS.
These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements, including the notes thereto, of Fiserv and CheckFree, which we and CheckFree have filed with the SEC.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2006 give effect to the CheckFree acquisition as if it had occurred at the beginning of each period and the sale of Fiserv Health as a discontinued operation and reflect a reduction of interest expense resulting from the use of the sale proceeds from Fiserv Health and the anticipated sale proceeds from Fiserv ISS primarily for the repayment of long-term debt. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2007 gives effect to the CheckFree acquisition, using the purchase method of accounting, and the sale of Fiserv Health and Fiserv ISS as if these transactions had occurred on September 30, 2007. The unaudited pro forma adjustments are based on available information and assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and actual results could differ materially from anticipated results.
Because we maintain a calendar fiscal year and CheckFree's fiscal year ends on June 30, we have combined CheckFree's results from different fiscal periods for purposes of this pro forma presentation, as described in footnote (a) to the accompanying unaudited pro forma financial statements. CheckFree's historical statements of income include the results of operations for CheckFree's acquisitions of Corillian Corporation ("Corillian") in May 2007 and Carreker Corporation ("Carreker") in April 2007 since the dates of acquisition. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income were not adjusted for the historical results of Corillian and Carreker prior to the effective date of acquisition because these acquisitions are not significant under Rule 3-05 of SEC Regulation S-X and our management does not believe they are material. In separate transactions, CheckFree acquired Corillian and Carreker for $245 million and $206 million in cash, respectively.
The unaudited pro forma financial statements are presented for illustration purposes only, in accordance with the assumptions set forth below, include various estimates and are not necessarily indicative of the operating results or financial position that would have occurred had the transactions been completed at the assumed dates or of the operating results or financial position of the combined enterprise in the future. The unaudited pro forma financial statements do not reflect any adjustments to conform accounting practices, other than those mentioned in the notes thereto, or to reflect any cost savings or other synergies anticipated as a result of the acquisition, the effect of asset dispositions, if any, or any transaction related expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income which reflect CheckFree's results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 have been calculated as (i) the respective amounts for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, (ii) the subtraction of the respective amounts for the quarters ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007, and (iii) the addition of the respective amounts for the quarters ended March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006. CheckFree's results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 have been calculated as the combination of the respective amounts for the quarters ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007. Certain reclassifications have been made to the presentation of the historical financial statements of CheckFree in order to conform to the presentation of Fiserv's historical financial statements. These reclassifications had no impact on CheckFree's historical total revenue or income from continuing operations.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
For the year ended December 31, 2006:
 
 
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to the presentation of the historical balance sheet of CheckFree to conform to the presentation of Fiserv's balance sheet as of September 30, 2007. These reclassifications, listed below, had no impact on CheckFree's historical total assets, liabilities, or stockholders' equity.
 
 
 
 
 
(b) The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income presented herein reflect Fiserv Health as discontinued operations as a result of the disposition and do not reflect the gain resulting from the sale. A reduction in interest expense resulting from the use of sale proceeds primarily for the repayment of long-term debt is reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income.
(c) To record an elimination adjustment for transactions involving the purchase and sale of services between Fiserv and CheckFree. These adjustments totaled $8.0 million and $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and nine months ended September 30, 2007, respectively, and were recorded as reductions of processing and services revenue and cost of processing and services.
(d) To record an increase in amortization expense related to the recording of the fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets, amortized over their estimated remaining useful lives. This preliminary pro forma adjustment has been calculated as the estimated annual amortization minus CheckFree's historical amortization expense, and amortization of developed technology has been allocated to cost of processing and services and amortization of customer relationships has been allocated to selling, general and administrative expenses as follows (in thousands):
 
The pro forma adjustment for amortization expense is based on the preliminary purchase price allocation discussed in footnote (l). Changes to the preliminary purchase price allocation including the finalization of appraisals of acquired assets and the finalization of estimated useful lives will result in a change to the pro forma adjustment for amortization expense. There can be no assurance that such finalizations will not result in material changes. Goodwill resulting from the acquisition is not amortized in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142").
 
(e) To record pro forma interest expense on debt incurred to acquire CheckFree. The borrowings incurred to fund the acquisition include the financing of $30 million of debt issuance costs and $20 million of acquisition fees and expenses which primarily relate to legal, financial and other professional fees and expenses. The amount of incremental interest expense, calculated below, is based on the expected interest rates on the long-term financing obtained to fund the acquisition. The expected weighted average interest rate of 6.4% includes amortization of debt issuance costs over the life of the related debt, ranging from 5 to 10 years. The pro forma condensed combined statements of income do not assume reductions to interest expense due to principal repayments of the initial borrowings or changes in interest rates. A change in the expected interest rate of 0.125% would impact pro forma income from continuing operations by approximately $5.6 million on an annual basis. The pro forma adjustment for interest expense is calculated as follows (in thousands):
 
(f) To record the reduction in incremental interest expense due to the anticipated $750 million paydown of the existing revolving credit facility and other debt with the net proceeds from the disposition of Fiserv Health, the anticipated net proceeds from the disposition of Fiserv ISS and the excess $50 million from the new term loan facility borrowings discussed in footnote (j). Based on assumed interest rates of 5.8% and 5.3%, the reduction of interest expense due to the $750 million debt paydown is $32.6 million and $39.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and year ended December 31, 2006, respectively.
(g) To record the income tax provision on the pro forma adjustments based on the applicable statutory federal and state income tax rates.
(h) The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet reflects the sale of Fiserv Health. The pro forma adjustment to cash and cash equivalents represents the net proceeds of $455 million from the sale less cash included in the businesses sold of $29 million and the pro forma adjustment to shareholders' equity represents the net gain of approximately $97 million.
(i) The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet reflects the sale of Fiserv ISS. Preliminary net proceeds from the sale of $250 million are reflected in cash and cash equivalents and the preliminary net gain of $80 million is reflected in shareholders' equity. These adjustments exclude any anticipated proceeds from contingent cash consideration of up to $100 million based on achievement of revenue targets over the twelve months subsequent to closing.
(j) To record debt incurred to acquire CheckFree of $4.5 billion, which includes the financing of $30 million of debt issuance costs and $20 million of acquisition fees and expenses, which are discussed in footnote (e) above, and $50 million to be used for the repayment of debt.
(k) To reflect the use of a portion of the net proceeds from the disposition of Fiserv Health, the anticipated net proceeds from the disposition of Fiserv ISS and the excess $50 million from the new term loan facility borrowings discussed in footnote (j) to repay $750 million of the existing revolving credit facility and other debt.
(l) To adjust the historical assets and liabilities of CheckFree, to record goodwill, intangible assets and deferred income taxes associated with the acquisition and to reverse CheckFree's historical goodwill and
 
intangible assets. The pro forma adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill represent the difference between the preliminary allocation of purchase price and the amounts on CheckFree's balance sheet at September 30, 2007. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated relative fair values is as follows (in thousands):
 
The preliminary allocation of purchase price is based on a preliminary assessment of the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition and does not reflect final appraisals of assets acquired or final evaluation of all liabilities assumed in the acquisition. Goodwill is generated to the extent that the purchase price exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired. The preliminary assessment of fair value resulted in goodwill of $2.85 billion, which will be subject to periodic impairment testing, in accordance with SFAS 142. The preliminary assessment of the fair values of CheckFree's intangible assets are based on projections of expected future net cash flows, discounted to present value. Other assets and liabilities are valued at their historical book value. These and other preliminary estimates will change as additional information becomes available and is assessed by Fiserv.
(m) To eliminate CheckFree's historical shareholders' equity.
 


