FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20091027164035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2009, Fiserv, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), the leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2009. The company announced the sale of its Loan Fulfillment Solutions business ("Fiserv LFS") in the quarter. Accordingly, the financial results of Fiserv LFS are reported as discontinued operations for the third quarter of 2009 and for all periods presented. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2009 subject to customary closing conditions.
Brookfield, Wis., October 27, 2009
Total GAAP revenue in the third quarter was $992 million compared with $1.04 billion in 2008. Total adjusted revenue decreased 1 percent to $945 million in the quarter compared with $958 million in 2008. Total GAAP revenue for the first nine months of 2009 was $3.02 billion compared with $3.55 billion in 2008. Total adjusted revenue for the year decreased 2 percent to $2.86 billion compared with $2.91 billion in 2008.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for the third quarter were $0.79 compared with $0.46 in 2008. Total GAAP earnings per share, including discontinued operations, were $0.74 for the third quarter compared with $0.48 in 2008. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.21 for the first nine months of 2009 compared with $1.69 in 2008. Total GAAP earnings per share, including discontinued operations, were $2.30 for the first nine months of 2009 compared with $3.08 in 2008.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in the third quarter increased 14 percent to $0.92 compared with $0.81 in 2008. For the first nine months of 2009 adjusted earnings per share increased 11 percent to $2.72 compared with $2.45 in 2008. Adjusted internal revenue declined 2 percent in the third quarter and the year to date. On a constant currency basis, adjusted internal revenue declined 1 percent in both the quarter and the first nine months of 2009 compared with 2008.
 
 
Adjusted operating margin was 28.9 percent in the third quarter and year to date, an increase of 110 basis points and 160 basis points, respectively, over 2008. The increased operating margin resulted primarily from growth in higher-margin revenue, favorable changes in the company's business mix and operating efficiency.
"We continue to deliver high-quality earnings and free cash flow, which is a testament to our market-leading value proposition," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "Although top-line revenue growth remains challenged in the current environment, our results continue to showcase the attractiveness of our business model."
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for 2009
Fiserv expects its full-year 2009 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations to be within a narrowed range of $3.63 to $3.68. The company expects adjusted internal revenue growth in the fourth quarter to be in a range of 0 to 2 percent.
"We remain on track to achieve earnings within our full-year guidance in what has been one of the most challenging periods in the history of financial services," said Yabuki. "We continue to deliver solid performance while investing to ensure an even brighter future."
Earnings Conference Call
The company will discuss its third quarter 2009 results on a conference call and Webcast at 4 p.m. CDT on Tuesday, October 27. To register for the event go to and click on the Q3 Earnings Webcast icon. Supplemental materials and an accompanying presentation will be available in the "For Investors" section of the website.
www.fiserv.com
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We supplement our reporting of total revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "adjusted operating margin," "free cash flow," and "adjusted internal revenue growth" in this earnings release. Management believes that adjustments for certain non-cash or unusual revenue or expense items, and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenues and expenses, enhance our shareholders' ability to evaluate our performance because such items do not reflect how we manage our operations. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share to calculate these non-GAAP measures. We also exclude the financial results of Fiserv Insurance from "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income" and "adjusted operating margin" because we sold a majority interest in our Insurance segment in 2008 and, accordingly, believe that these adjusted results reflect the performance of our remaining primary operations.
Examples of non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to, non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, severance costs and merger and integration expenses. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the management of our operations. We regularly report our adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various businesses.
Free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth are described in detail on pages 10 and 12. Adjusted internal revenue growth percentage is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe is useful to investors because it presents internal revenue growth excluding postage reimbursements in our output solutions business and deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustments. We believe this supplemental information enhances our shareholders' ability to evaluate and understand our core business performance.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV) is the leading global provider of information management and electronic commerce systems for the financial services industry, driving innovation that transforms experiences for financial institutions and their customers. Ranked No. 1 on the FinTech 100 survey of top technology partners to the financial services industry, Fiserv celebrates its 25th year in 2009. For more information, visit .
www.fiserv.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and adjusted internal revenue growth and the closing of pending dispositions. Statements can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "could," "should," or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe the company's future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may affect the company's results include, among others: the impact on the company's business of the current state of the economy, including the risk of reduction in revenue resulting from the elimination of existing or potential clients due to consolidation or financial failures in the financial services industry or from decreased spending on the products and services that the company offers; the company's ability to complete, and the
 
 
timing of and the proceeds from, the sale of the remainder of Fiserv ISS, including the risk that the conditions to the completion of the transaction may not be satisfied or the remaining required regulatory approval may not be obtained timely or at all; the company's ability to complete, and the timing of and the proceeds from, the sale of Fiserv LFS; the company's ability to successfully integrate CheckFree's operations; changes in client demand for the company's products or services; pricing or other actions by competitors; the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives; the company's ability to comply with government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information and footnote (1) on page 7 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow has been adjusted for payments totaling $18 million and $25 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to after-tax merger and severance costs. Management believes it is appropriate to exclude these payments from the calculation of free cash flow because they may not be indicative of the future free cash flow of the company. See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
FISV-E
 


