FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20090203162558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 3, 2009, Fiserv, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For more information contact:
Investor Relations:
David Banks
Vice President Investor Relations
262-879-5055
David.banks@fiserv.com
Media Relations:
Lori Stafford-Thomas
Asst. Vice President Corp. Communications
262-879-5130
Lori.stafford@fiserv.com
For immediate release:
Feb. 3, 2009
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading provider of information technology solutions to the financial industry, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2008. These financial results reflect the acquisition of CheckFree in December 2007 and the disposition of a 51% interest in Fiserv's insurance operations ("Fiserv Insurance") in July 2008.
Brookfield, Wis., Feb. 3, 2009 
Total GAAP revenues were $1.06 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008 compared with $1.11 billion in 2007. Total adjusted revenues, excluding Fiserv Insurance, were $1.01 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008 and $816 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. For the full year, total GAAP revenues were $4.74 billion in 2008 and $3.90 billion in 2007. Total adjusted revenues, excluding Fiserv Insurance, were up 38 percent to $4.05 billion in 2008 compared with $2.94 billion in 2007.
GAAP earnings per share for the fourth quarter of 2008 were $0.39, compared with $0.58 for the fourth quarter of 2007. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2008 were $0.45, which included a $0.20 after-tax loss on the sale of businesses primarily related to Fiserv Insurance, compared with $0.55 for the fourth quarter of 2007. For the full year, GAAP earnings per share were $3.49 in 2008, compared with $2.60 in 2007. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.12 in 2008, which included a $0.35 after-tax loss from the sale of businesses, compared with $2.45 in 2007.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were up 23 percent to $0.85 compared with $0.69 for the fourth quarter of 2007. For the year, adjusted earnings per share were also up 23 percent to $3.29 compared with $2.67 in 2007. Adjusted internal revenue growth, excluding Fiserv Insurance, was down 2 percent for the fourth quarter and up 1 percent for the full year.
 
 
Adjusted operating margin increased 300 basis points to 26.8 percent in the fourth quarter, and increased 190 basis points to 26.1 percent for the full year compared with the 2007 periods.
"During 2008, we delivered on our commitments to substantially grow earnings and cash flow while integrating CheckFree, both in the face of a challenging market. Our outstanding free cash flow allows us to stay focused on serving clients exceptionally well and continue to invest in future growth opportunities," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "Although we are disappointed with the internal revenue growth in our financial segment, which was negatively impacted by lower home equity processing and discretionary license revenues, we continue to make great progress in building our base of recurring revenue. Our payments segment, which nearly doubled in revenue during 2008 to more than $2 billion, continues to deliver solid revenue and earnings growth."
FOURTH QUARTER BUSINESS AND OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK FOR 2009
Fiserv expects 2009 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in a range of $3.61 to $3.75, which represents growth of 10 to 14 percent compared with adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $3.29 in 2008. The company expects 2009 adjusted internal revenue growth to be in a range of 0 to 4 percent. The adjusted earnings per share outlook excludes the impact of extraordinary gains or charges, merger and integration costs, and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
"As we embark upon our 25th year, our strong client relationships and industry-leading position should allow us to grow earnings at double-digit levels in an environment which we believe will face significant challenges in 2009. We are pragmatically approaching our cost structure this year, balanced against our commitment to invest in solutions that will help our clients navigate the market turbulence and extend Fiserv's market differentiation," said Yabuki.
 
 
EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL
The company will discuss its fourth quarter and full year 2008 results on a conference call and Webcast at 4 p.m. CST on Feb. 3. To register for the event go to and click on the Q4 Earnings Webcast icon. Supplemental materials and an accompanying presentation will be available in the "For Investors" section of the website.
www.fiserv.com
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
We supplement our reporting of total revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenues," "adjusted revenues excluding Fiserv Insurance," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "adjusted operating margin," "free cash flow," "adjusted internal revenue growth," "adjusted internal revenue growth excluding Fiserv Insurance" and "adjusted internal revenue growth excluding home equity business" in this earnings release. Management believes that adjustments for certain non-cash or unusual revenue or expense items, and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenues and expenses, enhance our shareholders' ability to evaluate our performance because such items do not reflect how we manage our operations. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share to calculate these non-GAAP measures. In addition, we report "adjusted revenues excluding Fiserv Insurance" and "adjusted internal revenue growth excluding Fiserv Insurance" because we recently sold a majority interest in our Insurance segment and, accordingly, believe that these results reflect the performance of our remaining primary operations. We also report "adjusted internal revenue growth for the financial segment excluding home equity business" because we believe that this metric reflects the performance of the remainder of the financial segment without the significant declines of this specific revenue component.
Examples of non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to, non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, and merger and integration expenses. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the management of our operations. We regularly report our adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various businesses.
Free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth are described in detail on pages 10 and 12. We believe this supplemental information enhances our shareholders' ability to evaluate and understand our core business performance.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
 
About Fiserv, Inc.
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a Fortune 500 company, provides information management and electronic commerce systems and services to the financial industry. Leading services include transaction processing, outsourcing, electronic bill payment and presentment, investment management solutions, business process outsourcing (BPO), software, risk management and systems solutions. Headquartered in Brookfield, Wis., the company is the leading provider of account processing solutions for U.S. banks, credit unions and thrifts. Fiserv was ranked the largest provider of information technology services to the financial services industry worldwide in the 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2008 FinTech 100 surveys. Fiserv reported revenue of $4.7 billion in 2008. For more information, please visit .
www.fiserv.com
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and adjusted internal revenue growth in 2009. Statements can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "should," or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may adversely affect the company's results include, among others, the impact on our business of the current state of the economy, including the risk of reduction in revenue resulting from the elimination of existing or potential customers due to consolidation in the banking, retail and financial services industries or from decreased spending on the products and services that we offer; the company's ability to successfully integrate CheckFree's operations; the company's ability to complete, and the timing of and the proceeds from, the sale of the remainder of the Fiserv ISS business; changes in clients' demand for the company's products or services; pricing or other actions by competitors; the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives; and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The free cash flow calculation above has been adjusted for non-recurring payments totaling $35 million and $34 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to after-tax merger costs and one-time liabilities assumed on the opening balance sheets of acquired companies. Management believes it is appropriate to exclude these payments from the normal calculation of free cash flow because they may not be indicative of the future free cash flow of the company. See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information and the footnotes on pages 6 and 7 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
 
Adjusted internal revenue growth percentage is a non-GAAP financial measure that the company believes is useful to investors because it presents internal revenue growth excluding postage reimbursements in the company's output solutions business and the deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment. In addition, the company believes that the presentation of its adjusted internal revenue growth rate both including and excluding home equity loan processing revenue declines is useful to investors because it enables them to understand the impact of these revenues, which can significantly impact internal revenue growth rates.
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
FISV-E
 


