FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20090729161739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2009, Fiserv, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), the leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2009. These financial results reflect the disposition of a 51% interest in Fiserv's insurance operations ("Fiserv Insurance") in July of 2008.
Brookfield, Wis., July 29, 2009
Total GAAP revenue was $1.03 billion for the second quarter of 2009 compared with $1.29 billion in 2008. Total adjusted revenue decreased 3 percent to $983 million for the second quarter of 2009 compared with $1.02 billion in 2008, due primarily to declines in the home equity loan processing business. For the first six months of 2009, total GAAP revenue was $2.08 billion compared with $2.60 billion in 2008 and total adjusted revenue was $1.97 billion compared with $2.04 billion in 2008.
GAAP earnings per share for the second quarter were $0.90 compared with $0.60 for the second quarter of 2008, which include earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.73 and $0.62, respectively. GAAP earnings per share for the first half were $1.56 compared with $2.60 for the first half of 2008, which include earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.39 and $1.22, respectively.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations were up 7 percent to $0.90 for the quarter compared with $0.84 in 2008. For the first six months of 2009, adjusted earnings per share were up 9 percent to $1.78 compared with $1.63 in 2008. Adjusted internal revenue declined by 4 percent in both the second quarter and the first six months of 2009.
Adjusted operating margin was 27.9 percent both in the second quarter and the first six months of 2009, an increase of 190 basis points and 200 basis points, respectively, over the prior-year periods. The increase in operating margin was primarily from growth in higher-margin revenue, favorable changes in the company's business mix and operating efficiency.
"Our solid earnings and margin results in the face of continuing economic challenges once again demonstrated the strength of our business model," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "We complemented our economic performance with a number of new significant client relationships resulting from the combination of leading solutions and our enhanced go-to-market approach."
 
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for 2009
Fiserv affirmed its expectations for full-year 2009 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in a range of $3.61 to $3.75, which represents growth of 10 to 14 percent compared with $3.29 in 2008. The company expects positive second half 2009 adjusted internal revenue growth, resulting in full-year adjusted internal revenue growth in a range of -2 to 1 percent.
The adjusted earnings per share outlook excludes the impact of extraordinary gains or charges, merger and integration costs and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
"Solid execution continues to serve as the catalyst for strong growth in earnings and free cash flow in the face of a more challenging revenue growth environment," said Yabuki.
Earnings Conference Call
The company will discuss its second quarter 2009 results on a conference call and Webcast at 4 p.m. CDT on Wednesday, July 29. To register for the event go to and click on the Q2 Earnings Webcast icon. Supplemental materials and an accompanying presentation will be available in the "For Investors" section of the website.
www.fiserv.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We supplement our reporting of total revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "adjusted operating margin," "free cash flow," and "adjusted internal revenue growth" in this earnings release. Management believes that adjustments for certain non-cash or unusual revenue or expense items, and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenues and expenses, enhance our shareholders' ability to evaluate our performance because such items do not reflect how we manage our operations. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share to calculate these non-GAAP measures. We also exclude the financial results of Fiserv Insurance from "adjusted revenues," "adjusted operating income" and "adjusted operating margin" because we sold a majority interest in our Insurance segment in 2008 and, accordingly, believe that these results reflect the performance of our remaining primary operations.
Examples of non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to, non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, severance costs and merger and integration expenses. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the management of our operations. We regularly report our adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various businesses.
Free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth are described in detail on pages 9 and 11. Adjusted internal revenue growth percentage is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe is useful to investors because it presents internal revenue growth
 
 
excluding postage reimbursements in our output solutions business and the deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustment. We believe this supplemental information enhances our shareholders' ability to evaluate and understand our core business performance.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenues, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV) is the leading global provider of information management and electronic commerce systems for the financial services industry, driving innovation that transforms experiences for financial institutions and their customers. Ranked No. 1 on the FinTech 100 survey of top technology partners to the financial services industry, Fiserv celebrates its 25
th
year in 2009. For more information, visit .
www.fiserv.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and adjusted internal revenue growth. Statements can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "could," "should," or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe the company's future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may affect the company's results include, among others: the impact on the company's business of the current state of the economy, including the risk of reduction in revenue resulting from the elimination of existing or potential clients due to consolidation or financial failures in the financial services industry or from decreased spending on the products and services that the company offers; the company's ability to complete, and the timing of and the proceeds from, the sale of the remainder of the Fiserv ISS business, including the risk that the conditions to the completion of the transaction may not be satisfied or the required regulatory approvals may not be obtained timely or at all; the company's ability to successfully integrate CheckFree's operations; changes in client demand for the company's products or services; pricing or other actions by competitors; the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives; the company's ability to comply with government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information and the footnote on page 6 for explanations of adjustments to revenue and operating income. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow has been adjusted for payments totaling $13 million and $11 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to after-tax merger and severance costs. Management believes it is appropriate to exclude these payments from the calculation of free cash flow because they may not be indicative of the future free cash flow of the company. See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 3 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
FISV-E
 


