FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20100727162139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2010, Fiserv, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For more information contact:
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), the leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2010.
Brookfield, Wis., July 27, 2010
Total GAAP revenue in the second quarter of 2010 was $1.02 billion compared with $1.00 billion in the second quarter of 2009. Total adjusted revenue increased 2 percent to $970 million in the second quarter compared with $951 million in 2009. For the first six months of 2010, total GAAP revenue was $2.03 billion compared with $2.02 billion in 2009, and total adjusted revenue was $1.92 billion, flat compared to 2009.
GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2010 was $0.85 compared with $0.74 in 2009. GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for the first six months of 2010 was $1.65 compared with $1.42 for 2009.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2010 increased 11 percent to a record $1.00 compared with $0.90 in 2009. Adjusted earnings per share increased 8 percent to $1.95 for the first six months of 2010 compared to $1.80 in 2009.
"Our results in the quarter included an acceleration of organic revenue growth, strong sales performance and double-digit growth in earnings per share and free cash flow," said Jeffery Yabuki, President and Chief Executive Officer of Fiserv. "Pairing our high quality people with industry-leading solutions is producing superior client value."
Second Quarter 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook for 2010
Fiserv continues to expect full year adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in a range of $3.96 to $4.07, which represents growth of 8 to 11 percent compared with 2009. The company also expects 2010 adjusted internal revenue growth to be in a range of 1 to 3 percent. The adjusted earnings per share outlook excludes the impact of extraordinary items, merger and integration costs and the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets.
"We are on track to achieve our 2010 guidance based on solid first half results and a strong sales pipeline," said Yabuki.
 
 
Earnings Conference Call
The company will discuss its second quarter 2010 results on a conference call and webcast at 4 p.m. CDT on Tuesday, July 27, 2010. To register for the event, go to and click on the Q2 Earnings Webcast icon. Supplemental materials and an accompanying presentation will be available in the "For Investors" section of the website.
www.fiserv.com
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We supplement our reporting of revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share information determined in accordance with GAAP by using "adjusted revenue," "adjusted operating income," "adjusted income from continuing operations," "adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations," "adjusted operating margin," "free cash flow" and "adjusted internal revenue growth" in this earnings release. Management believes that adjustments for certain non-cash or unusual revenue or expense items and the exclusion of certain pass-through revenue and expenses enhance our shareholders' ability to evaluate our performance because such items do not reflect how we manage our operations. Therefore, we exclude these items from GAAP revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share to calculate these non-GAAP measures.
Examples of non-cash or unusual items may include, but are not limited to, non-cash intangible asset amortization expense associated with acquisitions, severance costs, merger and integration expenses and non-cash deferred revenue adjustments arising from acquisitions. We exclude these items to more clearly focus on the factors we believe are pertinent to the management of our operations. We regularly report our adjusted results to our chief executive officer, who uses this information to allocate resources to our various businesses.
Free cash flow and adjusted internal revenue growth are described on pages 10 and 12. Adjusted internal revenue growth percentage is a non-GAAP financial measure that we believe is useful to investors because it presents revenue growth excluding acquired revenue, postage reimbursements in our Output Solutions business and deferred revenue purchase accounting adjustments. We believe this supplemental information enhances our shareholders' ability to evaluate and understand our core business performance.
These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, revenue, operating income, income from continuing operations and earnings per share or any other amount determined in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures reflect management's judgment of particular items and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
 
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV) is the leading global provider of information management and electronic commerce systems for the financial services industry, driving innovation that transforms experiences for financial institutions and their customers. Fiserv is ranked No. 1 on the FinTech 100 survey of top technology partners to the financial services industry. For more information, visit .
www.fiserv.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding anticipated adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations and adjusted internal revenue growth. Statements can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "could," "should" or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe the company's future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. The factors that may affect the company's results include, among others: the impact on the company's business of the current state of the economy, including the risk of reduction in revenue resulting from decreased spending on the products and services that the company offers or from the elimination of existing or potential clients due to consolidation or financial failures in the financial services industry; legislative and regulatory actions in the United States, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations, and internationally; changes in client demand for the company's products or services; pricing or other actions by competitors; the impact of the company's Fiserv 2.0 initiatives; the company's ability to comply with government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other factors included in the company's filings with the SEC, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements, and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. The company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See page 4 for disclosures related to the use of non-GAAP financial information.
FISV-E
 


