FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20110225121104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carl W. Stern, Jr. was elected to the board of directors of Fiserv, Inc. effective February 23, 2011. At the time of this disclosure, no determination has been made regarding the committee on which Mr. Stern will serve.
Mr. Stern, 64, is chairman of The Boston Consulting Group Inc., a global management consulting firm that advises clients on issues of direction and performance ("BCG"). Mr. Stern joined BCG in 1974. He began as a consultant in the San Francisco office, transferred to London in 1978, and led the firm's Chicago office from 1981 to 1991. He headed BCG's Americas region from 1991 to 1997. In 1997, Mr. Stern was elected president and chief executive officer, a position that he held from 1998 through 2003. He has since served as chairman of the board.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For more information contact:
For Immediate Release
 
 Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), the leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, today announced the appointment of Carl W. Stern, chairman of The Boston Consulting Group Inc. (BCG), to its Board of Directors.
Brookfield, Wis., February 24, 2011
Mr. Stern has been shaping strategic business thinking for more than 35 years. In 1974, he joined BCG, a global management consulting firm that advises clients regarding issues of direction and performance. He led BCG's Chicago office from 1981 to 1991, and the company's Americas region from 1991 to 1997. In 1997, he was elected president and chief executive officer of the company, a position he held through 2003. Mr. Stern has since served as BCG's chairman of the board.
"For more than three decades, Carl has used his senior strategic and leadership experience to bring provocative ideas and insights to the companies and individuals with whom he has worked," said Don Dillon, Fiserv Chairman of the Board. "His experience will complement our board of directors well, and we're looking forward to adding his perspectives."
Mr. Stern remains active in client service, assisting a number of global companies in developing competitive strategies for their businesses and in shaping their corporate portfolios. He has written extensively and is a frequent speaker at management forums around the world.
Prior to joining BCG, Mr. Stern served in the U.S. Navy as a lieutenant. He graduated from Harvard University, cum laude, with a Bachelor of Arts in economics. He earned a Master of Business Administration degree from the Stanford Graduate School of Business in 1974.
Mr. Stern serves on the boards of the Initiative for a Competitive Inner City and the Friends of the World Food Program. He is a trustee or member of several organizations; among them are the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Rush University Medical Center, the civic committee of The Commercial Club of Chicago, and the Chicago Club.
 
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV) is the leading global provider of information management and electronic commerce systems for the financial services industry, driving innovation that transforms experiences for financial institutions and their customers. Fiserv is ranked No. 1 on the FinTech 100 survey of top technology partners to the financial services industry. For more information, visit.
www.fiserv.com
 


