FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20121129091008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christopher M. Flink was elected to the board of directors of Fiserv, Inc. (the "Company") on November 28, 2012. He was also appointed to the nominating and corporate governance committee of the board of directors.
Mr. Flink is a partner at the innovation and design firm IDEO where he leads key client relationships, guiding portfolios of innovation projects in retail, education and consumer products. In his 15 years at IDEO, Mr. Flink has held a variety of roles, from heading the firm's Consumer Experience Design practice to co-founding its New York office. Mr. Flink also teaches at Stanford University where he is a lecturer at the Graduate School of Business, a consulting associate professor at the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design (d.school), and a member of the d.school's Strategy Board.
Mr. Flink will participate in the Company's standard non-employee director compensation arrangements described under "Compensation of Directors" in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 12, 2012. Mr. Flink's compensation will be pro-rated for his period of service through the Company's 2013 annual meeting of shareholders. In connection with his election, Mr. Flink will be entering into the Company's Non-Employee Director Indemnity Agreement, a form of which was filed as Exhibit 10.37 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is being filed herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, today announced the appointment of Chris Flink, 40, to its Board of Directors. Flink, a partner at the innovation and design firm IDEO and a consulting associate professor at Stanford University, has extensive experience helping companies of all kinds innovate and grow.
Brookfield, Wis., November 29, 2012
Fiserv, Inc.
In his 15 years with IDEO, Flink has held a variety of roles, from heading the firm's Consumer Experience Design practice to co-founding its New York office. He has led diverse programs in collaboration with clients that include some of the world's most recognizable brands. He currently leads key client relationships, guiding portfolios of innovation projects in retail, education, and consumer products.
At Stanford, Flink is a lecturer at the Graduate School of Business, and a consulting associate professor at the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design (d.school). He has served on the d.school's Strategy Board since inception and has taught courses within the engineering department such as "Advanced Product Design" and "Human Values in Design" since 1999. In 2011, he co-taught the popular "Brands, Experience, & Social Technology (BEST)" course, followed by "Social Brands" in 2012.
"Financial services are increasingly reliant on technology to deliver value and create relationships with customers," said Donald F. Dillon, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Fiserv. "With his experience as an advisor to dynamic global brands, as well as an educator at one of the world's premier centers of innovation, Chris brings unique talents to our Board and we look forward to his contributions at Fiserv."
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV) is a leading global technology provider serving the financial services industry, driving innovation in payments, processing services, risk and compliance, customer and channel management, and business insights and optimization. For more information, visit .
www.fiserv.com
 
 


