FILE:FISV/FISV-8K-20120710154424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dennis F. Lynch was elected to the board of directors of Fiserv, Inc. on July 9, 2012. At the time of this disclosure, no determination has been made regarding the committees on which Mr. Lynch will serve.
Mr. Lynch, 63, is chairman of Cardtronics, Inc., the largest owner and operator of retail ATMs worldwide. He was appointed chairman in 2010 and has served as a director of Cardtronics since 2008. Mr. Lynch is also a director, and former chairman, of the Secure Remote Payments Council, a cross-industry organization dedicated to accelerating the growth, development and market adoption of more secure ecommerce and mobile payments. He previously served as: chairman and chief executive officer of RightPath Payments, Inc. from 2005 to 2008; a director of Open Solutions Inc. from 2005 to 2007; president and chief executive officer of NYCE Corporation from 1996 to 2004; and chairman of Yankee 24 ATM Network from 1988 to 1990.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), a leading global provider of financial services technology solutions, today announced the appointment of Dennis F. Lynch to its Board of Directors. Lynch has been a major contributor to the U.S. payments industry for over 30 years, driving the adoption of card and payment solutions that have enhanced how consumers conduct financial transactions.
Brookfield, Wis., July 9, 2012
Lynch is currently the Chairman of the Board at Cardtronics, Inc. the largest owner and operator of retail ATMs worldwide. He is also a Director, and former Chairman, of the Secure Remote Payments Council, a cross-industry organization dedicated to accelerating the growth, development, and market adoption of more secure ecommerce and mobile payments.
Lynch was previously the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of RightPath Payments, Inc. from 2005 to 2008 and the President and Chief Executive Officer of NYCE Corporation from 1996 to 2004. During his tenure, NYCE grew from a regional payments company to one of national scale. He was a founding Director of the New England-wide Yankee 24 ATM Network, serving as Chairman from 1988 to 1990. Lynch also served on the Board of Directors of Open Solutions Inc. from 2005 to 2007.
"Dennis brings significant financial services and payments experience to our Board," said Donald F. Dillon, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Fiserv. "We expect that his knowledge and insights will enhance our strategic position, and support our focus on providing technology solutions to an evolving market."
About Fiserv
Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV) is a leading global technology provider serving the financial services industry. Fiserv is driving innovation in payments, processing services, risk and compliance, customer and channel management, and business insights and optimization. For six of the past eight years, Fiserv ranked No. 1 on the FinTech 100, an annual international listing of the top technology providers to the financial services industry. For more information, visit
www.fiserv.com.
FISV-G


