FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20031201173354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
Date of Report:
December 1, 2003
Date of earliest event reported: 
December 1, 2003
 
Item 5.
Other Events
                                  
 
The Company is re-issuing in an updated format certain of its historical financial statements in connection with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," and Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company decided to sell its Newmans valve business, including its subsidiary Newmans Valve Limited.  As a result of this decision, as required by SFAS 144, the Company reported the financial results of Newmans as discontinued operations for the three and six months ended September 28, 2003 and September 29, 2002.  Under Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") requirements for transitional disclosure, the same reclassification for discontinued operations required by SFAS 144 following the decision to sell a business is required for previously issued annual financial statements for each of the three years shown in the Company's last annual report on Form 10-K, as amended, if those financials are incorporated by reference in subsequent filings with the SEC made under the Securities Act of 1933, even though those financial statements relate to periods prior to the date the operations were classified as discontinued.  Consequently, the Company is re-issuing its financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 30, 2003, March 31, 2002 and April 1, 2001, and for the three months ended June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002.  This reclassification has no effect on the Company's reported net income.  The Company is re-issuing these financial statements in connection with proposed financing arrangements for its acquisition of SPS Technologies, Inc., which may involve registration of the Company's securities under the Securities Act.
 
In accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, the Company is providing footnote disclosure of its condensed consolidating financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 30, 2003, March 31, 2002 and April 1, 2001 and for the three and six months ended September 28, 2003 and September 29, 2002.  Rule 3-10 requires issuers of guaranteed securities to provide footnote disclosure of condensed consolidating financial statements under certain circumstances.  The Company is providing this information in connection with proposed financing arrangements for its acquisition of SPS Technologies, Inc., which may involve the issuance of securities that are guaranteed by certain of the Company's material domestic subsidiaries.
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K updates Part II, Item 8 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2003, as amended, and Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended June 29, 2003 and September 28, 2003, as amended.  Except as expressly provided herein, no attempt has been made to update matters in these Annual and Quarterly Reports.
 
Item 7.
                                  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a)Financial statements of businesses acquired.
                       
                                 
 
Not applicable.
                                                                       
 
(b)Pro forma financial information.
                       
                                
 
Not applicable.
                                                                       
 
(c)Exhibits:
                       
                                 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Dated:  December 1, 2003

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-65479, No. 333-42899, No. 333-14577, No. 33-32367, No. 33-40559, No. 333-41950, No. 333-00276 and No. 333-102227); and the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-1090333) of Precision Castparts Corp. of our report dated April 28, 2003, except for the condensed consolidating financial statements footnote and the reclassifications relating to discontinued operations as to which the date is December 1, 2003, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Precision Castparts Corp. included in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 14 through 36.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 14 through 36.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 14 through 36.
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Investment
 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 14 through 36.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
(In millions, except option share and per share data)
 
Summary of significant accounting policies
 
Principles of consolidation
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC" or "the Company") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries after elimination of intercompany accounts and transactions.  Unless otherwise noted, disclosures herein pertain to the Company's continuing operations.  PCC's fiscal year is based on a 52-53 week year ending the Sunday closest to March 31.
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.  Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders' investment or net income.
 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase.  These investments are available for sale with market values approximating cost.
 
Inventories
 
All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or current market values.  Cost for work in process and metal inventories at a significant number of the Company's operations is determined on a last-in, first-out ("LIFO") basis.  The average inventory cost method is utilized for most other inventories.  Costs utilized for inventory valuation purposes include labor, material and manufacturing overhead.
 
Property, plant and equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost.  Depreciation of plant and equipment is computed using the straight-line or declining balance method based on the estimated service lives of the assets.  Estimated service lives are 20-30 years for buildings and improvements, 5-15 years for machinery and equipment and 3-5 years for computer hardware and software.  Depreciation expense was $79.0 million, $66.9 million and $67.9 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.  Gains and losses from the disposal of property, plant and equipment are included in the consolidated statements of income and were not material.  Expenditures for maintenance, repairs and minor improvements are charged to expense as incurred.
 
Goodwill and acquired intangibles
 
Goodwill represents costs in excess of fair values assigned to the underlying net assets of acquired businesses and has been amortized using the straight-line method generally over 40 years for all acquisitions completed prior to June 30, 2001.  Goodwill amortization is recorded in cost of sales.  Effective July 1, 2001, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," applicable to business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001.  In accordance with these standards, goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer subject to amortization.  Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment each fiscal year in the second quarter using the guidance and criteria described in the standard.  This testing compares carrying values to fair values, and if the carrying value of these assets is in excess of fair value, the carrying value is required to be reduced to fair value.
 
Acquired intangibles with finite lives are amortized using the straight-line method and include the following:  territory access rights, 30 years; non-compete agreements, 3-6 years; customer base, 5-15 years; and developed technology, 10-20 years.
Long-lived assets
 
Effective April 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."  Long-lived assets deemed held for sale are stated at the lower of cost or fair value.  Long-lived assets held for use are subject to an impairment assessment upon certain triggering events.  If the carrying value is no longer recoverable based upon the undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset.
 
Revenue recognition
 
The Company recognizes revenue when the earnings process is complete.  This generally occurs when products are shipped to the customer in accordance with the contract or purchase order, ownership and risk of loss have passed to the customer, collectibility is reasonably assured, and pricing is fixed and determinable.  In instances where title does not pass to the customer upon shipment, the Company recognizes revenue upon delivery or customer acceptance, depending on terms of the sales agreement.  Service sales, representing aftermarket repair and maintenance and engineering activities, are recognized as services are performed.
 
Environmental costs
 
The estimated future costs for known environmental remediation requirements are accrued on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of remediation costs can be reasonably estimated.  When only a range of amounts is established, and no amount within the range is better than another, the minimum amount of the range is recorded.  Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from other parties are recorded as assets when collection is probable.  Total environmental reserves accrued at March 30, 2003 and March 31, 2002 were $32.4 million and $33.5 million, respectively.  The amounts accrued relate to estimated liabilities at multiple locations, with no single location having a material exposure.
 
Foreign currency translation
 
Assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign affiliates, other than those located in highly inflationary countries, are translated at current exchange rates, while income and expenses are translated at average rates for the period.  For entities in highly inflationary countries, a combination of current and historical rates is used to determine currency gains and losses resulting from financial statement translation and those resulting from transactions.  Translation gains and losses are reported as a component of shareholders' investment, except for those associated with highly inflationary countries, which are reported directly in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
Transaction gains and losses that arise from exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, except those transactions that have been designated as hedges of identifiable foreign currency commitments or investment positions, are included in the results of operations as incurred.  Transaction gains and losses had no material impact on the Company's results of operations.
 
Financial instruments
 
The Company's financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, foreign currency forward contracts, accounts payable and debt.  Because of their short maturity, the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term bank debt approximate fair value.  Fair value of long-term debt is based on quoted market prices or on rates available to the Company for debt with similar terms and maturities.
 
At various times, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and prices of natural gas and strategic raw materials.  The Company has controls in place that limit the use of derivative financial instruments and ensure that all such transactions receive appropriate management attention.
The Company accounts for derivatives pursuant to SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended.  This standard requires that all derivative financial instruments be recorded in the financial statements and measured at fair value.  Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are either recognized periodically in income or shareholders' investment (as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income) depending on whether the derivative is being used to hedge changes in fair value or cash flows.  The adoption of SFAS No. 133 in the first quarter of fiscal 2002 resulted in an unrecognized loss of $4.9 million, net of tax, as a cumulative effect adjustment of accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
As discussed in the "Financing Arrangements" footnote, the Company was committed to an interest rate swap on floating debt at March 30, 2003.  Other immaterial instruments in place at year end included hedges to cover exposures related to foreign currencies and raw materials used in certain of the Company's facilities.  At March 30, 2003, and March 31, 2002, there was no material off-balance-sheet risk from financial instruments.  The Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes.
 
Stock-based compensation
 
The Company accounts for stock-based employee compensation in accordance with the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations.  No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in net income, as all stock options are granted with exercise prices equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the grant dates.  The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based on the fair value of the stock options granted at the grant dates as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."
 
 
Use of estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Recently issued accounting standards
 
In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."  SFAS No. 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred.  When the liability is initially recorded, the entity is required to capitalize the cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset.  The liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset.  PCC does not expect the adoption of this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statement No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections."  This Statement, which updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting pronouncements, addresses the reporting of debt extinguishments and accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale-leaseback transactions.  The Company is required and plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 145 effective March 31, 2003 and does not expect the adoption of this statement to impact its financial statements.
 
In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities."  SFAS No. 146 nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)."  SFAS No. 146 applies to costs associated with an exit activity that does not involve an entity newly acquired in a business combination or with a disposal activity covered by SFAS No. 144.  SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, with earlier application encouraged.  The Company implemented SFAS No. 146 during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003.
 
In November 2002, the FASB Interpretation ("FIN") No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others," was issued.  FIN No. 45 requires certain guarantees to be recorded at fair value.  The initial recognition and measurement provisions of FIN No. 45 are applicable, on a prospective basis, to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002.  FIN No. 45 also requires a guarantor to make significant disclosures.  The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements ending after December 15, 2002.  The adoption of FIN No. 45 is not expected to have a significant effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosures," which amends SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."  SFAS No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation.  In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require more prominent and more frequent disclosures in financial statements about the effects of stock-based compensation.  The transition guidance and annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002.  The interim disclosure provisions are effective for financial reports containing financial statements for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002.  The adoption of SFAS No. 148 had no effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," relating to consolidation of certain entities.  FIN No. 46 requires identification of the Company's participation in variable interests entities ("VIE"), which are defined as entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a standalone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest.  For entities identified as VIE, FIN No. 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns.  FIN No. 46 also sets forth certain disclosures regarding interests in VIE that are deemed significant, even if consolidation is not required.  This interpretation applies immediately to VIE created or in which a company obtains an interest after January 31, 2003.  For interests in VIE acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN No. 46 applies in the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003.  The Company does not currently anticipate any material accounting or disclosure requirement under the provisions of this interpretation.
 
Business acquisitions
 
The following acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations have been included in the Consolidated Statements of Income since the acquisition dates.  Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, goodwill acquired after June 30, 2001, which includes the Company's acquisitions in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2002, is not amortized.  The impact of these acquisitions was not material to the Company's results of operations.  Consequently, pro forma information is not presented.
 
Fiscal 2002
 
In fiscal 2002, PCC acquired the following five entities for a total cost of $54.0 million, of which $47.9 million was paid in cash and $6.1 million was paid in 176,505 shares of PCC common stock based on the market value of the stock at the date of acquisition.  Goodwill recognized in these transactions totaled $27.2 million, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.  Goodwill was assigned to the Investment Cast Products, Forged Products, Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products segments in the amounts of $0.8 million, $17.6 million, $6.7 million, and $2.1 million, respectively.
 
In the first quarter, the Company increased its ownership interest in Design Technologies International ("DTI") from 33 percent to 70 percent for $0.3 million.  DTI, which is located in Poland, was operated as part of the Industrial Products segment.  The purchase generated $2.1 million of goodwill.  PCC sold its controlling interest in DTI in fiscal 2003 and reclassified its operating results to discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
In the third quarter, the Company acquired American Oilfield Products ("AOP") located in Moore, Oklahoma.  AOP manufactures floating and trunnion mounted ball valves and is operated as part of the Fluid Management Products segment.  The purchase price of $13.9 million generated $6.5 million of goodwill.
 
In the fourth quarter, the Company increased its ownership interest in Western Australian Specialty Alloys Pty Ltd ("WASA") from 25 percent to 100 percent for $27.6 million in cash and 176,505 shares of PCC common stock with a market value of $6.1 million at the date of acquisition.  WASA, located in Perth, Australia, produces casting and forging alloys for aircraft engine and industrial gas turbine manufacturers and is operated as part of the Forged Products segment.  The purchase generated $17.6 million of goodwill.
 
Also during the fourth quarter, PCC acquired Lake Erie Design, a manufacturer of ceramic cores for aerospace and industrial gas turbines and other precision casting applications that are utilized in the Investment Cast Products segment.  The purchase price of $5.2 million generated $0.8 million of goodwill.
 
Also during the fourth quarter, PCC acquired CW Valve Services.  CW Valve Services, located in Houston, Texas, repairs and remanufactures valves for the Fluid Management Products segment.  The purchase price of $0.9 million generated $0.2 million of goodwill.  Intangible assets acquired were valued at $0.4 million and included a customer base and non-compete agreements.
Fiscal 2001
 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2001, PCC acquired the stock of Fastener Engineers & Lewis Machine ("FELM"), which is located in Rockford, Illinois.  FELM is a designer and manufacturer of wire-processing equipment and was operated as part of the Industrial Products segment.  The purchase price of $5.3 million generated $1.1 million of goodwill.  PCC sold the FELM business in fiscal 2003 and reclassified its operating results to discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
Also during the first quarter, PCC acquired the stock of ConVey Engineering, which is located in Germany.  ConVey Engineering is a manufacturer of double-eccentric heavy-duty valves and is included in the operations of the Fluid Management Products segment.  The purchase price of $0.5 million generated $0.5 million of goodwill.
 
PCC also acquired the assets of the aerospace division of United Engineering Forgings (Aero) in the first quarter.  Located in Lincoln, England, Aero manufactures forged aircraft engine discs, shafts and engine-mounting brackets.  Aero has been renamed Wyman-Gordon Lincoln and is included in the operations of the Forged Products segment.  The purchase price of $34.3 million generated $23.9 million of goodwill.
 
 During the third quarter of fiscal 2001, PCC acquired the assets of the valve division of Wouter Witzel, which is located in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany.  Wouter Witzel manufactures double-flanged and wafer butterfly valves and is operated as part of the Fluid Management Products segment.  The purchase price of $13.8 million generated $2.4 million of goodwill.
 
Also during the third quarter, PCC acquired the stock of Drop Dies and Forgings Company, located in Cleveland, Ohio.  Renamed Wyman-Gordon Cleveland, this company manufactures both ferrous and non-ferrous forgings and is included in the operations of the Forged Products segment.  The purchase price of $22.8 million generated $11.5 million of goodwill.
 
Discontinued operations
 
In fiscal 2003, PCC incurred charges associated with the closure or sale of certain businesses within its Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products segments.  The PCC Olofsson and Eldorado machine businesses were closed and the Eldorado gundrill tooling business was sold.  In addition, the Company sold its controlling interest in Design Technologies International ("DTI") and certain intangible assets of Olofsson to minority shareholders of DTI.  The closure or sale of these operations was in response to a steady and continual decline in the machine tool industry over the past several years.  In addition, PCC closed STW Composites ("STW") as it was deemed to be a non-core business to PCC.  PCC also entered into agreements to sell Barber Industries and Fastener Engineers & Lewis Machine ("FELM") and began actively marketing PCC Superior Fabrication for sale in the fourth quarter.  The performance of these businesses was not consistent with the Company's long-term strategy for profitable growth.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company decided to sell Newmans, a valve distribution company within the Fluid Management Products segment.  It was determined that Newmans' distribution business did not fit with PCC's manufacturing-focused operations and was not performing to the Company's expectations.
 
Olofsson, Eldorado, DTI, STW, Superior Fabrication, FELM and Barber each meet the criteria as a component of an entity under SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."  Accordingly, any operating results of these businesses are presented in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations, net of income tax, and all prior periods have been reclassified.  The components of discontinued operations for the periods presented are as follows:
 
In addition, the Company recorded disposal expenses totaling $42.4 million related to the write-down of remaining inventory and property, plant and equipment to fair value less cost to sell, the write-down of account receivable and other current assets to net realizable value, and incremental costs directly related to the closure or sale of the businesses, such as pension, severance and lease termination costs.
 
Included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are the following major classes of assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations after adjustment for write-downs to fair value less cost to sell:
 
 
Other business dispositions
 
Fiscal 2002
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company sold the machinery, inventory, receivables and customer lists of the Carmet Company for $5.6 million.  Carmet Company had operated within the Investment Cast Products segment.  An impairment charge of $19.7 million was recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2002, concurrent with management's decision to dispose of the business.
 
Fiscal 2001
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company sold the assets of Scaled Composites, Inc. for $6.0 million.  Scaled Composites was acquired as part of the acquisition of Wyman-Gordon and had been classified as an asset-held-for-sale.  The disposition generated no gain or loss for the Company.
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company received a $14.4 million 10-year note receivable for the Company's interest in Pittler GmbH, which had been operated as part of the Industrial Products segment.  During the second quarter of fiscal 2002, the note was written off due to the bankruptcy of Pittler.  The write-off was recorded as a charge to impairment of long-lived assets.
Restructuring, asset impairment and other non-recurring charges
 
The following table provides significant components of amounts recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income related to the Company's restructuring and asset impairment charges.
 
 
Fiscal 2003
 
During the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2003, PCC recorded provisions for restructuring totaling $21.6 million.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2003, PCC established an $11.0 million reserve pursuant to restructuring plans to downsize operations throughout the Company as a result of the continued decline in both commercial aerospace and power generation markets, coupled with softness in the general industrial markets.  The reserve consisted of $10.2 million for employee severance and $0.8 million for other exit costs, including leasehold termination payments and other contractual obligations resulting from the restructuring activities.  These restructuring plans provided for terminations through the first quarter of fiscal 2004 of approximately 970 employees.  Over 95 percent of these employees were terminated as of the end of fiscal 2003.
 
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, PCC established a $10.6 million reserve for employee severances of $10.0 million and other costs of $0.6 million associated with the continued downsizing of operations, principally in Europe.  Termination of 671 employees is provided for under this plan.  As of March 30, 2003, approximately 50 percent of these employees were terminated, with the remaining terminations expected by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2004 in accordance with local laws.
 
Fiscal 2002
 
During the second and third quarters of fiscal 2002, PCC recorded provisions for restructuring and impairment of long-lived assets totaling $106.1 million.
 
During the second quarter of fiscal 2002, PCC established a reserve totaling $5.4 million pursuant to restructuring plans to consolidate European valve production operations within the Fluid Management Products segment and downsize operations within the Industrial Products Segment.  The reserve consisted of $1.9 million for employee severance and $3.5 million for other exit costs, including incremental costs and contractual obligations for items such as leasehold termination payments and other facility exit costs incurred as a direct result of the restructuring plans.  These restructuring plans resulted in the termination of approximately 92 employees.
Charges totaling $32.4 million were taken in the second quarter of fiscal 2002 for impairment of long-lived assets.  A $19.7 million charge provided for the write-down of the assets of an unprofitable business to net realizable value less exit costs.  The business manufactured carbide products for various industrial markets and was included in the Investment Cast Products segment.  Net realizable value was based on estimates of proceeds upon sale or collection of the assets.  Substantially all of the assets were sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2002.  The second quarter impairment charge also included $10.5 million for the write-off of a long-term note receivable, included in other assets, from a previously owned company that declared bankruptcy.  Fixed asset costs of $2.2 million were also included in the impairment charge primarily for write-off of fixed assets associated with the restructuring of European operations within the Fluid Management Products segment.
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2002, PCC established a reserve of $10.5 million for employee severance ($9.3 million) and other exit costs ($1.2 million) associated with downsizings within the Investment Cast Products and Forged Products segments due to expected declines in commercial aerospace sales, continued downsizing of operations within the Industrial Products Segment and consolidation of European valve production operations within the Fluid Management Products segment.  The other exit costs included lease termination costs resulting from the restructuring plans.  The restructuring plan resulted in the terminations of approximately 850 employees, or 6 percent of the Company's workforce.
 
Also during the third quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company incurred charges for impairment of long-lived assets totaling $57.8 million.  This charge consisted of $50.2 million for goodwill impairment and $5.4 million for impairment of property, plant and equipment at PCC Specialty Products, which had experienced substantial declines in sales and operating cash flow within its threading tool and punch component businesses as a result of downturns in the machine tool and automotive markets.  Given the significant changes in business conditions, PCC performed an evaluation of the recoverability of the long-lived assets of these businesses and determined that the estimated future undiscounted cash flows of the assets were insufficient to recover their related carrying values.  Pursuant to SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," an impairment charge was recorded to reduce the carrying amount of the assets to fair value based on the estimated present value of expected future cash flows of the businesses.  Also included in the asset impairment charge were the write-downs of fixed assets associated with the quarter's restructuring activity, which totaled $2.2 million.
 
Fiscal 2001
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2001, PCC recorded pre-tax charges of $9.4 million related to restructuring activities and other non-recurring items.  Reserves totaling $8.7 million were established for the write-off of the Company's investment in a joint venture in India ($4.8 million), as well as for severance costs ($3.5 million) and other exit costs ($0.4 million) associated with the closure of a small aerospace repair operation within the Investment Cast Products segment and the elimination of machining operations in Scotland as the machining operations are now being performed in a new machining plant in the Czech Republic within the Forged Products segment.  In addition, asset impairment charges totaling $0.7 million were taken to write down property, plant and equipment as a result of the restructuring activities.
 
The following table provides a rollforward of amounts included in accrued liabilities for restructuring reserves:
 
Other income
 
Other income of $14.5 million was recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2003 as a result of two insurance settlements.  The first settlement of $13.6 million related to environmental issues for which a reserve had been established previously at Wyman-Gordon.  The second settlement of $0.9 million resulted from a judgment on a claim related to Wyman-Gordon's benefit plans.
 
Fair value of financial instruments
 
Cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables, accrued liabilities and short-term borrowings are reflected in the financial statements at cost, which equals fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
 
The fair value of long-term debt was estimated using the Company's year-end incremental borrowing rate for similar types of borrowing arrangements.  The amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for long-term debt approximate fair value.  The fair value of the interest rate swap underlying the term loan was a liability of $17.9 million at March 30, 2003 and $10.0 million at March 31, 2002.
 
Concentration of credit risk
 
Approximately 53 percent of PCC's business activity in fiscal year 2003 was with companies in the aerospace industry, and 25 percent of total sales were to General Electric.  Accordingly, PCC is exposed to a concentration of credit risk for this portion of receivables.  The Company has long-standing relationships with its aerospace customers and management considers the credit risk to be low.
 
Inventories
 
Inventories consisted of the following:
 
 
Approximately 48 percent of total inventories at March 30, 2003 were valued on a LIFO basis.
 
Goodwill and acquired intangibles
 
Effective April 1, 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."  This statement changed the accounting for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets from an amortization approach to an impairment-only approach that must be completed at least annually.  The Company completed its transitional goodwill assessment test during the second quarter of fiscal 2002 and incurred no transitional impairment charge as a result of adopting the new provisions.
The following table presents a reconciliation of reported net income and net income per share to adjusted net income and net income per share, as if SFAS No. 142 had been in effect:
 
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2003, were as follows:
 
 
During fiscal 2002, the Company acquired $0.4 million of intangible assets with the acquisition of CW Valve Services and $9.5 million through the purchases of territory access rights and a product line.  With the Company's decision to sell its Superior Fabrication business in fiscal 2003, $1.0 million of intangible assets associated with the previous acquisition of a product line were written off.  The gross carrying amount of the Company's acquired intangible assets was as follows:
 
Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets in fiscal 2003 was $0.6 million.  Future amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired as of March 30, 2003 is estimated to be $0.6 million for each of the succeeding five fiscal years.
 
Accrued liabilities
 
Accrued liabilities consisted of the following:
 
 
 
Financing arrangements
 
Long-term debt is summarized as follows:
 
Long-term debt maturing in each of the next five fiscal years is $320.3 million in 2005, $60.3 million in 2006, $0.3 million in 2007 and $150.2 million in 2008.
 
The Company has a bank credit agreement for $710.0 million ("Credit Agreement").  The Credit Agreement includes a $310.0 million term loan facility and a $400.0 million revolving credit facility.  At March 30, 2003, $394.3 million of the Credit Agreement was unused and available for borrowing.  Borrowings under both the term loan and the revolving credit facility include a margin based on the Company's credit ratings.
 
At March 30, 2003, the Company had swapped floating rate term loan debt into fixed rate debt at 5.9%.   The amount of the swap decreases as the term loan is repaid through September 2005.  In connection with issuance of the 8.75% Notes, the Company hedged the underlying Treasury bond rate in June 1999 and realized a $5.6 million benefit on the hedge, which is being amortized over the life of the 8.75% Notes.  The benefit resulted in an effective reduction of the coupon rate to 8.19%.
 
The Credit Agreement contains various standard financial covenants, including maintenance of minimum net worth, fixed charge coverage ratio and leverage ratio.  The 6.75% Notes and 8.75% Notes also contain various standard financial covenants.  The Company's debt agreements also contain cross default provisions.  At March 30, 2003, the Company was in compliance with all restrictive provisions of its loan agreements.
Short-term borrowings at March 30, 2003 include $75.5 million under a 364-day Credit and Security Agreement ("Receivable Facility").  The amount of borrowings allowable under the Receivable Facility is a function of the level of eligible trade accounts receivable, which cannot exceed $150.0 million.  The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings was 1.6% at March 30, 2003 and 2.2% at March 31, 2002.
 
Income taxes
 
Income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes and minority interest was:
 
 
The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:
 
 
United States income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries.  The Company's intention is to reinvest these earnings and repatriate the earnings only when it is tax efficient to do so.  Accordingly, the Company believes that any United States tax on repatriated earnings would be substantially offset by foreign tax credits.  As of March 30, 2003, undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries were $115.6 million.
 
Certain acquisitions yielded nondeductible goodwill, which is reflected in the tax rate reconciliation below, and the tax impact of purchase accounting adjustments is reflected in deferred taxes.
 
A reconciliation of the United States federal statutory rate to the effective income tax rate follows:
 
 
The increase in the fiscal 2002 effective rate was due to the Company receiving no tax benefits related to the $55.7 million write-off of goodwill included in impairment of long-lived assets.
Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the recognition of income and expenses for financial and income tax reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as purchases for financial reporting purposes and their corresponding tax bases.  Deferred income taxes represent future tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary differences reverse.
 
Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
 
 
The Company has provided valuation allowances for domestic and foreign net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the related future income tax benefits to zero.
 
Earnings per share
 
The weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per share is as follows:
 
 
Basic earnings per share are calculated based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding.  Diluted earnings per share are computed based on that same number of shares plus additional dilutive shares representing stock distributable under stock option and employee stock purchase plans computed using the treasury stock method.
 
Options to purchase 1.4 million, 1.1 million and 0.4 million shares of common stock were outstanding during fiscal 2003, fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, respectively, and not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because to do so would have been antidilutive.  These options could be dilutive in the future.
Pension and other postretirement benefit plans
 
The Company and its subsidiaries sponsor many domestic and foreign defined benefit pension plans.  Benefits provided by these plans generally are based on years of service and compensation.  PCC's funding policy for the domestic plans is to satisfy the funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.  PCC also provides postretirement medical benefits for certain eligible employees who have satisfied plan eligibility provisions, which include age and/or service requirements.  The following information is provided for the plans discussed above.
 
 
Other assets include $4.2 million of prepaid benefit cost and $9.6 million intangible assets.
 
Assets of the pension plans are invested primarily in equities and fixed income investments.
 
Included in the aggregated data in the above tables are amounts applicable to the Company's pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets.  Amounts related to such plans were as follows:
 
 
The assumptions used in determining the benefit obligations in 2003 and 2002 were as follows:
 
 
The health care cost trend rate to be used in fiscal 2004 ranges from 5% to 12% and is expected to  be 5.0% thereafter.  A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:
 
 
The net cost for the Company's pension plans consisted of the following components:
 
The cost of postretirement benefits other than pensions consisted of the following components:
 
 
The cost of contributions to the Company's 401(k) savings plans was $8.5 million, $9.2 million and $8.9 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Commitments and contingencies
 
The Company leases certain facilities, office space and equipment under operating leases for varying periods.  Future minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more at March 30, 2003 are as follows:
 
 
Total rent expense for all operating leases was $11.1 million, $10.8 million and $9.2 million for fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
Various lawsuits arising during the normal course of business are pending against PCC.  In the opinion of management, the outcome of these lawsuits, either individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material effect on PCC's consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or business.
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company warrants its products against defects in design, materials and workmanship over various time periods.  The warranty accrual as of March 30, 2003 and March 31, 2002 is immaterial to the financial position of the Company, and the change in the accrual for fiscal 2003 is immaterial to the Company's results of operations and cash flows.
 
In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, the Company may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., retention of previously existing environmental and tax liabilities) with terms that range in duration and often are not explicitly defined.  Where appropriate, an obligation for such indemnifications is recorded as a liability.  Because the obligated amounts of these types of indemnifications often are not explicitly stated, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated.  Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, the Company has not historically made significant payments for these indemnifications.
 
Shareholders' investment
 
Authorized shares of common stock without par value consisted of 300.0 million shares at March 30, 2003, March 31, 2002, and April 1, 2001.  Authorized and unissued no par serial preferred stock consisted of 1.0 million shares at March 30, 2003, March 31, 2002, and April 1, 2001.
Stock-based compensation plans
 
PCC has stock incentive plans for certain officers, key salaried employees and directors.  The officer and employee stock incentive plans allow for the grant of stock options, stock bonuses, stock appreciation rights, cash bonus rights and sale of restricted stock.  The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines awards under the officer and employee stock incentive plans.  To date, all awards under the stock incentive plans have been nonqualified stock option grants.  The Committee fixes the time limit within which options may be exercised and other exercise terms.  Option prices of the plans to date have been at the fair market value on the date of grant.  Options become exercisable in installments from one to four years from the date of grant and generally expire ten years from the date of grant.
 
Summarized information relative to the Company's stock incentive plans is as follows:
 
 
(1) Weighted average exercise price.
 
The outstanding options for stock incentive plan shares have expiration dates ranging from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2013.  At March 30, 2003, 4,693,000 stock incentive plan shares were available for future grants.
 
Summarized information about stock options outstanding and exercisable at March 30, 2003, is as follows:
 
 
(1) Weighted average contractual life remaining in years.
(2) Weighted average exercise price.
PCC also has an employee stock purchase plan whereby the Company is authorized to issue shares of common stock to its full-time employees, nearly all of whom are eligible to participate.  Under the terms of the plan, employees can choose to have up to 10 percent of their annual base earnings withheld to purchase the Company's common stock subject to limitations established in the Internal Revenue Code.  The purchase price of the stock is the lower of 85 percent of the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant or on the date purchased.
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 123, the fair value of each stock option grant has been estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.  The weighted-average fair value of the option grants along with the weighted-average assumptions used is as follows:
 
 
(1) Estimated using Black-Scholes option pricing model
(2) Purchase rights granted under employee stock purchase plan
 
A table illustrating the effect on net income and earnings per share as if the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based on the fair value of the options granted at grant date as prescribed by SFAS No. 123 is presented in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies footnote.
 
Shareholder rights plan
 
Effective December 3, 1998, PCC declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock of the Company to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 16, 1998.  Under certain conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase 1/100 of a share of series A no par serial preferred stock at a purchase price of $200 per share, subject to adjustment.  The rights will be exercisable only (i) if a person or group has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, 15 percent or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, (ii) following the commencement of a tender or exchange offer that would result in a person or group beneficially owning 15 percent or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, or (iii) after the Board of Directors of PCC declares any person who owns more than 10 percent of the outstanding common stock to be an Adverse Person.  Each right will entitle its holder to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the Company (or, in certain circumstances, cash, property or other securities of PCC) having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.  If the rights become exercisable, and (i) PCC is acquired in a merger or other business combination in which PCC does not survive or in which its common stock is exchanged for stock or other securities or property, or (ii) 50 percent or more of the Company's assets or earning power is sold or transferred, each right will entitle its holder to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.  The rights expire on December 16, 2008, and may be redeemed by PCC for $0.001 per right at any time until a determination is made that any person is an Adverse Person, or 10 days following the time that a person has acquired 15 percent or more of the outstanding common stock, or in connection with certain transactions approved by the Board of Directors.  The rights do not have voting or dividend rights and, until they become exercisable, have no dilutive effect on the earnings of PCC.
Derivatives and hedging activities
 
Effective April 2, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended.  This standard requires that all derivative financial instruments be recorded in the financial statements and measured at fair value.  Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are either recognized periodically in income or shareholders' investment (as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income) depending on whether the derivative is being used to hedge changes in fair value or cash flows.  The adoption of SFAS No. 133 resulted in an unrecognized loss of $4.9 million as a cumulative effect adjustment of accumulated other comprehensive income relating to cash flow hedges discussed below.  Of the $8.9 million loss relating to derivative activity remaining in accumulated comprehensive income at March 30, 2003, approximately $6.6 million is expected to be transferred to net earnings over the next twelve months when the forecasted transactions actually occur.  No material gains or losses due to ineffectiveness were recognized in fiscal 2003.
 
The Company holds and issues derivative financial instruments for the purpose of hedging the risks of certain identifiable and anticipated transactions.  In general, the types of risks hedged are those relating to the variability of future earnings and cash flows caused by movements in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in commodity prices and interest rates.  The Company documents its risk management strategy and hedge effectiveness at the inception of and during the term of each hedge.  In the normal course of business, the Company executes the following types of hedge transactions:
 
Fair value hedges
 
The Company has sales and purchase commitments denominated in foreign currencies.  Foreign currency forward contracts are used to hedge against the risk of change in the fair value of these commitments attributable to fluctuations in exchange rates.  Changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are generally offset in the income statement by changes in the fair value of the item being hedged.
 
Cash flow hedges
 
The Company has variable rate debt obligations that expose the Company to interest rate risk.  PCC has entered into an interest rate swap to eliminate this risk on a portion of its variable rate debt.  The notional amount of the swap decreases through September 2005 as this debt is repaid.  At March 30, 2003, the notional amount of the swap was $260.0 million.  The notional amount represents the debt to be paid as of fiscal year end and does not represent the Company's exposure on the swap.  The Company also purchases natural gas for its operations under variable price contracts.  In order to hedge against increases in the price of natural gas, the Company has entered into commodity swaps for a portion of its anticipated purchases.  For these cash-flow hedge transactions, changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments are reported in other comprehensive income.  The gains and losses on cash flow hedge transactions that are reported in other comprehensive income are reclassified to earnings in the periods in which earnings are affected by the variability of the cash flows of the hedged item.  The ineffective portions of all hedges, which were not material for fiscal 2003, are recognized in current period earnings.
 
The Company believes that there is no significant credit risk associated with the potential failure of any counterparty to perform under the terms of any derivative financial instrument.
 
Segment information
 
The Company's operations are classified into four reportable business segments: Investment Cast Products, Forged Products, Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products.  The Company's four reportable business segments are managed separately based on fundamental differences in their operations.
 
Investment Cast Products
 
The Investment Cast Products segment includes PCC Structurals and PCC Airfoils.  These businesses manufacture investment castings for aircraft engines, industrial gas turbine (IGT) engines, airframes, armaments, medical prostheses and other industrial applications.
Forged Products
 
The Forged Products segment comprises all of the forging businesses of Wyman-Gordon.  This segment's sales to the aerospace and power generation markets are derived primarily from the same large engine customers served by the Investment Cast Products segment, with additional aerospace sales to manufacturers of landing gear and other airframe components.  The Forged Products segment also produces seamless pipe and other products for the oil and gas industry.
 
Fluid Management Products
 
The Fluid Management Products segment includes all of the businesses of PCC Flow Technologies.  The businesses that comprise this segment manufacture an extensive range of fluid management products that include pumps for water and wastewater treatment, low-pressure sewer systems, new construction, processing, energy and other applications; and valves for oil and gas, fuel distribution, food processing, severe services and other applications.
 
Industrial Products
 
The Industrial Products segment includes J&L Fiber Services, Advanced Forming Technology (AFT) and Reed-Rico.  J&L Fiber Services produces refiner plates and screen cylinders for use in the pulp and paper industry and rebuilds refiner equipment that is used in the pulping process.  AFT manufactures metal-injection-molded, metal-matrix-composite, and ThixoFormed components for numerous industrial applications.  Reed-Rico manufactures a broad range of cold-forming header and threader tools, as well as machines for fastener production.
 
The Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based on operating income.  The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."  There are no material intersegment sales.  Segment results are as follows:
 
 
(1) Corporate assets consist principally of accounts receivable (Precision Receivables Corp. established in fiscal 2000), cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and other assets.
 
Sales to General Electric were 25.4 percent, 23.9 percent and 22.9 percent of total sales in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, as follows:
 
 
No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of net sales.
The Company's business is conducted on a global basis with manufacturing, service and sales undertaken in various locations throughout the world.  Net sales are attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the assets producing the revenues.  Long-lived assets consist of net property, plant and equipment and certain other tangible long-term assets of the continuing operations.  Geographic Information regarding the Company's net sales and long-lived assets is as follows:
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements
 
The following condensed consolidating financial statements present, in separate columns, financial information for (i) Precision Castparts Corp. (on a parent only basis) with its investment in its subsidiaries recorded under the equity method, (ii) guarantor subsidiaries expected to guarantee certain securities to be issued in connection with
proposed financing arrangements for the Company's proposed acquisition of SPS Technologies, Inc.
, on a combined basis, with any investments in non-guarantor subsidiaries recorded under the equity method, (iii) direct and indirect non-guarantor subsidiaries on a combined basis, (iv) the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, and (v) the Company on a consolidated basis, in each case as of
as of March 30, 2003 and March 31, 2002 and for the fiscal years ended March 30, 2003, March 31, 2002 and April 1, 2001
.  The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each guarantor subsidiary.  The guarantor subsidiaries include the Company's domestic subsidiaries within the Investment Cast Products, Forged Products and Industrial Products segments that are 100% owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company within the meaning of Rule 3-10(h)(1) of Regulation S-X.  There are no contractual restrictions limiting transfers of cash from guarantor and non-guarantor subsidiaries to the Company.  The condensed consolidating financial statements are presented herein, rather than separate financial statements for each of the guarantor subsidiaries, because management believes that separate financial statements relating to the guarantor subsidiaries are not material to investors.
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Fiscal Year Ended March 30, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Fiscal Year Ended April 1, 2001
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
March 30, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
March 31, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Year Ended March 30, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
Fiscal Year Ended April 1, 2001
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Report of Independent Accountants
 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Precision Castparts Corp.:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and shareholders' investment present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Precision Castparts Corp. and its subsidiaries at March 30, 2003 and March 31, 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 30, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
As discussed in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements, effective April 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
April 28, 2003, except for the condensed consolidating financial statements footnote and the reclassifications relating to discontinued operations as to which the date is December 1, 2003
 
Quarterly Financial Information(1)
 
 
(1)
                              
Historical amounts have been restated to present certain businesses within the Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products segments as discontinued operations.
(2)
                              
The second quarter of fiscal 2003 includes an $11.0 million charge for costs associated with restructuring activities throughout the Company.  The second quarter also includes other income of $14.5 million from insurance settlements.
(3)
                              
The fourth quarter of fiscal 2003 includes a $10.6 million charge for costs associated with restructuring activities to downsize operations, principally in Europe.
(4)
                              
The second quarter of fiscal 2002 includes a $5.4 million charge for costs associated with restructuring activities to consolidate and downsize operations within the Fluid Management and Industrial Products segments.  The second quarter also includes a $32.4 million charge for the impairment of long-lived assets within these segments.
(5)
                              
The third quarter of fiscal 2002 includes a $10.5 million charge for costs associated with restructuring activities to reduce operations impacted by a downturn in the commercial aerospace sector.  The third quarter also includes impairment charges of $57.8 million for the write-down of goodwill and other long-lived assets within the Industrial Products segment.

Exhibit 99.2
 
PART 1:  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 1.  Financial Statements
 
Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(Unaudited)
(In millions, except per share data)
 
 
See Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
 
See Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
 
 
Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(In millions)
 
See Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
 
 
Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(Unaudited)
(In millions)
 
 
See Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements on page 6.
 
Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements
(In millions, except per share data)
 
(1)
Basis of presentation
                                
 
The interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC" or the "Company"), without audit and subject to year-end adjustment, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, except that certain information and footnote disclosures made in the latest annual report have been condensed or omitted for the interim statements.  Certain costs are estimated for the full year and allocated in interim periods based on estimates of operating time expired, benefit received, or activity associated with the interim period.  The consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair representation of the results for the interim periods.  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.
 
(2)
Stock-based compensation
                                
 
The Company accounts for stock-based employee compensation in accordance with the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations.  The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based on the fair value of the stock options granted at the grant dates as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."
 
 
 
(3)
Discontinued Operations
                                
 
In fiscal 2003, PCC incurred charges associated with the closure or sale of certain businesses within its Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products segments.  The PCC Olofsson and Eldorado machine businesses were closed and the Eldorado gundrill tooling business was sold.  In addition, the Company sold its controlling interest in Design Technologies International ("DTI") and certain intangible assets of Olofsson to minority shareholders of DTI.  The closure or sale of these operations was in response to a steady and continual decline in the machine tool industry over the past several years.  In addition, PCC closed STW Composites ("STW") as it was deemed to be a non-core business to PCC.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, PCC also entered into agreements to sell Barber Industries and Fastener Engineers & Lewis Machine ("FELM"), which were sold in fiscal 2004, and began actively marketing PCC Superior Fabrication for sale.  The performance of these businesses was not consistent with the Company's long-term strategy for profitable growth.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company decided to sell Newmans, a valve distribution company within the Fluid Management Products segment.  It was determined that Newmans' distribution business did not fit with PCC's manufacturing-focused operations and was not performing to the Company's expectations.
 
Olofsson, Eldorado, DTI, STW, Superior Fabrication, FELM, Barber and Newmans each meet the criteria as a component of an entity under SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."  Accordingly, the operating results of these businesses are presented in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations, net of income tax, and all prior periods have been reclassified.  The components of discontinued operations for the periods presented are as follows:
 
 
The Company recorded disposal expenses that include amounts related to the write down of remaining inventory and property, plant and equipment to fair value less cost to sell, the write down of accounts receivable and other current assets to net realizable value, and provides for incremental costs directly related to the closure or sale of the businesses, such as pension, severance and lease termination costs.
 
Included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at September 28, 2003 are the following major classes of assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations after adjustment for write-downs to fair value less cost to sell:
 
 
 
(4)
Restructuring Charges
                                
 
The Company recorded $8.5 million of restructuring charges in the second quarter of fiscal 2004 primarily for severance associated with headcount reductions at PCC's investment castings operations in the United Kingdom and the Company's forging operations in the United Kingdom and Houston, Texas.  The reductions were in response to reduced demand for commercial aerospace and industrial gas turbine products.  The restructuring plans call for termination of approximately 435 employees through the first quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
The Company established an $11.0 million reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2003 pursuant to restructuring plans to downsize operations throughout the Company as a result of the continued decline in both the commercial aerospace and power generation markets, coupled with softness in the general industrial markets.  The reserve consisted of $10.2 million for employee severance and $0.8 million for other exit costs, including leasehold termination payments and other contractual obligations resulting from the restructuring activities.  These restructuring plans provided for terminations of approximately 970 employees.
 
The restructuring reserve balances and associated activity for the six months ended September 28, 2003, were as follows:
 
 
(5)
Other Income
                                
 
Other income of $14.5 million was recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2003 as a result of two insurance settlements.  The first settlement of $13.6 million related to environmental issues for which a reserve had been established previously at Wyman-Gordon.  The second settlement of $0.9 million resulted from a judgment on a claim related to Wyman-Gordon's benefit plans.
 
(6)
Inventories
                                
 
Inventories consisted of the following:
 
 
 
(7)
Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles
                                
 
Effective April 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."  This statement changed the accounting for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets from an amortization approach to an impairment-only approach.  The SFAS No. 142 goodwill impairment model is a two-step approach that must be completed at least annually.  The first step of the model requires a comparison of the book value of net assets to the estimated fair value of the related operations that have goodwill assigned to them.  If fair value is determined to be less than book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment.  In this process, the fair value of goodwill is determined, based in part on the fair value of the operations used in the first step, and is then compared to its carrying value.  If the fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value, the shortfall represents the amount of goodwill impairment.
 
The Company completed its transitional goodwill assessment test during the second quarter of fiscal 2004, and it was determined that the fair value of the related operations was greater than book value.  As a result, no write-down for impairment of goodwill was required.
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the six months ended September 28, 2003, were as follows:
 
 
The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of the Company's acquired intangible assets were as follows:
 
 
Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets during the second quarter of fiscal 2004 was $0.1 million.  Amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets is projected to be $0.6 million for fiscal 2004.  Projected amortization expense for the succeeding five fiscal years is as follows:
 
 
 
(8)
Guarantees
                                
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company warrants its products against defects in design, materials and workmanship over various time periods.  The warranty accrual as of September 28, 2003 and March 30, 2003 is immaterial to the financial position of the Company, and the change in the accrual for the current quarter and first six months of fiscal 2004 is immaterial to the Company's results of operations and cash flows.
 
In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, the Company may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., retention of previously existing environmental and tax liabilities) with terms that range in duration and often are not explicitly defined.  Where appropriate, an obligation for such indemnifications is recorded as a liability.  Because the obligated amounts of these types of indemnifications often are not explicitly stated, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated.  Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, the Company has not historically made significant payments for these indemnifications.
 
(9)
Earnings per share
                                
 
The weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per share are as follows:
 
 
Stock options that were not dilutive were excluded from computations of diluted earnings per common share amounts.  For the three and six months ended September 28, 2003, stock options to purchase 0.9 million and 0.9 million shares, respectively, were not dilutive.  For the three and six months ended September 29, 2002, stock options to purchase 1.4 million and 1.1 million shares, respectively, were not dilutive.  These shares were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the average market price was less than the exercise price of the shares.  However, these shares may be dilutive in future periods.
 
(10)
Comprehensive Income
                         
 
Comprehensive income consisted of the following:
 
 
 
(11)
New Accounting Pronouncements
                         
 
In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."  This statement requires that obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs be recognized when they are incurred and displayed as liabilities.  SFAS No. 143 was effective for the Company beginning April 1, 2003.  Implementation of this standard did not have an impact on the Company's financial statements.
 
In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statement no. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections."  SFAS No. 145, which updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting pronouncements, addresses the reporting of debt extinguishments and accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale-leaseback transactions.  The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS no. 145 effective March 31, 2003.  Implementation of SFAS No. 145 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
 
In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00-21, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables."  EITF No. 00-21 addresses certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which the vendor will perform multiple revenue generating activities.  EITF No. 00-21 was effective for interim periods beginning after June 15, 2003.  The Company does not expect the application of the provisions of EITF No. 00-21 to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," relating to consolidation of certain entities.  FIN No. 46 requires identification of the Company's participation in variable interest entities ("VIE"), which are defined as entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a standalone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest.  For entities identified as VIE, FIN No. 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns.  FIN No. 46 also sets forth certain disclosures regarding interests in VIE that are deemed significant, even if consolidation is not required.  This interpretation applies immediately to VIE created or in which a company obtains an interest after January 31, 2003.  For interests in VIE acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN No. 46 applies in the first interim period beginning after December 15, 2003.  The provisions of this interpretation are not expected to result in any material accounting or disclosure requirement for the Company.
 
(12)
Segment information
                         
 
The Company's operations are classified into four reportable business segments: Investment Cast Products, Forged Products, Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products.  The Company's four reportable business segments are identified separately based on fundamental differences in their operations.
 
 
 
(13)         Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements
 
, on a combined basis, with any investments in non-guarantor subsidiaries recorded under the equity method, (iii) direct and indirect non-guarantor subsidiaries on a combined basis, (iv) the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, and (v) the Company on a consolidated basis, in each case as of September 28, 2003 and March 30, 2003 and for the three and six months ended  September 28, 2003 and September 29, 2002.  The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each guarantor subsidiary.  The guarantor subsidiaries include the Company's domestic subsidiaries within the Investment Cast Products, Forged Products and Industrial Products segments that are 100% owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company within the meaning of Rule 3-10(h)(1) of Regulation S-X.  There are no contractual restrictions limiting transfers of cash from guarantor and non-guarantor subsidiaries to the Company.  The condensed consolidating financial statements are presented herein, rather than separate financial statements for each of the guarantor subsidiaries, because management believes that separate financial statements relating to the guarantor subsidiaries are not material to investors.
proposed financing arrangements for the Company's proposed acquisition of SPS Technologies, Inc.
The following condensed consolidating financial statements present, in separate columns, financial information for (i) Precision Castparts Corp. (on a parent only basis) with its investment in its subsidiaries recorded under the equity method, (ii) guarantor subsidiaries expected to guarantee certain securities to be issued in connection with
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Three Months Ended September 28, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Three Months Ended September 29, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Six Months Ended September 28, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Six Months Ended September 29, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
September 28, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
March 30, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
Six Months Ended September 28, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
Six Months Ended September 29, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)

Exhibit 99.3
 
PART 1:  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Item 1.  Financial Statements
 
Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited) (In millions, except per share data)
 
 
See Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements on page 5.
 
Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets (In millions)
 
 
See Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements on page 5.
Precision Castparts Corp. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) (In millions)
 
 
See Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements on page 5.
Notes to the Interim Consolidated Financial Statements
(In millions, except per share data)
 
(1)
Basis of Presentation
          
 
The interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC" or the "Company"), without audit and subject to year-end adjustment, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, except that certain information and footnote disclosures made in the latest annual report have been condensed or omitted for the interim statements.  Certain costs are estimated for the full year and allocated in interim periods based on estimates of operating time expired, benefit received, or activity associated with the interim period.  The consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair representation of the results for the interim periods.  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current year presentation.
 
(2)
Stock-based compensation
          
 
The Company accounts for stock-based employee compensation in accordance with the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations.  No stock-based employee compensation cost is reflected in net income, as all stock options are granted with exercise prices equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the grant dates.  The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share if the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based on the fair value of the stock options granted at the grant dates as prescribed by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."
 
(3)           Discontinued Operations
 
In fiscal 2003, PCC incurred charges associated with the closure or sale of certain businesses within its Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products segments.  The PCC Olofsson and Eldorado machine businesses were closed and the Eldorado gundrill tooling business was sold.  In addition, the Company sold its controlling interest in Design Technologies International ("DTI") and certain intangible assets of Olofsson to minority shareholders of DTI.  The closure or sale of these operations was in response to a steady and continual decline in the machine tool industry over the past several years.  In addition, PCC closed STW Composites ("STW") as it was deemed to be a non-core business to PCC.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, PCC also entered into agreements to sell Barber Industries and Fastener Engineers & Lewis Machine ("FELM"), which were sold in fiscal 2004, and began actively marketing PCC Superior Fabrication for sale.  The performance of these businesses was not consistent with the Company's long-term strategy for profitable growth.
 
In the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company decided to sell Newmans, a valve distribution company within the Fluid Management Products segment.  It was determined that Newmans' distribution business did not fit with PCC's manufacturing-focused operations and was not performing to the Company's expectations.
 
Olofsson, Eldorado, DTI, STW, Superior Fabrication, FELM, Barber and Newmans each meet the criteria as a component of an entity under SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."  Accordingly, the operating results of these businesses are presented in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income as discontinued operations, net of income tax, and all prior periods have been reclassified.
 
(4)
Goodwill
          
 
The Company performs annual testing in the second fiscal quarter on goodwill to determine if any impairment (i.e., the comparison of estimated fair value to carrying value) has occurred.  Fair value is estimated using the present value of expected cash flows.  No impairment is anticipated from our annual test which will be performed during the second quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the three months ended June 29, 2003, were as follows:
 
 
(5)
Acquired Intangible Assets
          
 
The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of the Company's acquired intangible assets were as follows:
 
 
Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets was $0.2 million for both the first quarter of fiscal 2004 and the first quarter of fiscal 2003.  Amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired as of June 29, 2003 is estimated to be $0.6 million in fiscal 2004, $0.6 million in fiscal 2005, $0.5 million in fiscal 2006, $0.6 million in fiscal 2007, $0.5 million in fiscal 2008 and $0.3 million in fiscal 2009.
 
(6)
Inventories
          
 
Inventories consisted of the following:
 
(7)
Restructuring Actions
          
 
No charges related to restructuring activities were recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 or the first quarter of fiscal 2003.  During the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2003, PCC recorded provisions for restructuring totaling $21.6 million to downsize operations throughout the Company as a result of the continued decline in both the commercial aerospace and power generation markets, coupled with softness in the general industrial markets.  The restructuring plans provided for the termination of approximately 1,600 employees, most of whom have been terminated as of June 29, 2003.  The accrued liability associated with the fiscal 2003 restructuring activities consisted of the following:
 
 
(8)
Guarantees
          
 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company warrants its products against defects in design, materials and workmanship over various time periods.  The warranty accrual as of June 29, 2003 and March 30, 2003 is immaterial to the financial position of the Company, and the change in the accrual for the current quarter is immaterial to the Company's results of operations and cash flows.
 
In conjunction with certain transactions, primarily divestitures, the Company may provide routine indemnifications (e.g., retention of previously existing environmental and tax liabilities) with terms that range in duration and often are not explicitly defined.  Where appropriate, an obligation for such indemnifications is recorded as a liability.  Because the obligated amounts of these types of indemnifications often are not explicitly stated, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated.  Other than obligations recorded as liabilities at the time of divestiture, the Company has not historically made significant payments for these indemnifications.
 
(9)
Earnings per share
          
 
The weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute earnings per share are as follows:
 
 
Stock options that were not dilutive were not included in the computations of diluted earnings per common share amounts.  For the three months ended June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002, stock options to purchase 1.2 million and 1.0 million shares, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the average market price did not exceed the exercise price.  However, these shares may be dilutive in future periods.
(10)
Comprehensive Income
        
 
Comprehensive income consisted of the following:
 
 
(11)
New Accounting Pronouncements
        
 
In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations."  This statement requires that obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs be recognized when they are incurred and displayed as liabilities.  SFAS No. 143 is effective for the Company beginning April 1, 2003.  Implementation of this standard did not have an impact on the Company's financial statements.
 
In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statement no. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections."  SFAS No. 145, which updates, clarifies and simplifies existing accounting pronouncements, addresses the reporting of debt extinguishments and accounting for certain lease modifications that have economic effects that are similar to sale-leaseback transactions.  The Company was required and adopted the provisions of SFAS no. 145 effective March 31, 2003.  Implementation of SFAS No. 145 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
 
In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00-21, "Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables."  EITF No. 00-21 addresses certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which the vendor will perform multiple revenue generating activities.  EITF No. 00-21 is effective for interim periods beginning after June 15, 2003.  The Company does not expect the application of the provisions of EITF No. 00-21 to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," relating to consolidation of certain entities.  FIN No. 46 requires identification of the Company's participation in variable interests entities ("VIE"), which are defined as entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a standalone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest.  For entities identified as VIE, FIN No. 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns.  FIN No. 46 also sets forth certain disclosures regarding interests in VIE that are deemed significant, even if consolidation is not required.  This interpretation applies immediately to VIE created or in which a company obtains an interest after January 31, 2003.  For interests in VIE acquired before February 1, 2003, FIN No. 46 applies in the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003.  The Company does not currently anticipate any material accounting or disclosure requirement under the provisions of this interpretation.
(12)
Segment Information
        
 
The Company's operations are classified into four reportable business segments: Investment Cast Products, Forged Products, Fluid Management Products and Industrial Products.  The Company's four reportable business segments are identified separately based on fundamental differences in their operations.
 
(13)
Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements
        
 
, on a combined basis, with any investments in non-guarantor subsidiaries recorded under the equity method, (iii) direct and indirect non-guarantor subsidiaries on a combined basis, (iv) the eliminations necessary to arrive at the information for the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, and (v) the Company on a consolidated basis, in each case as of June 29, 2003 and June 30, 2002 and for the three months then ended.  The Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each guarantor subsidiary.  The guarantor subsidiaries include the Company's domestic subsidiaries within the Investment Cast Products, Forged Products and Industrial Products segments that are 100% owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company within the meaning of Rule 3-10(h)(1) of Regulation S-X.  There are no contractual restrictions limiting transfers of cash from guarantor and non-guarantor subsidiaries to the Company.  The condensed consolidating financial statements are presented herein, rather than separate financial statements for each of the guarantor subsidiaries, because management believes that separate financial statements relating to the guarantor subsidiaries are not material to investors.
proposed financing arrangements for the Company's proposed acquisition of SPS Technologies, Inc.
The following condensed consolidating financial statements present, in separate columns, financial information for (i) Precision Castparts Corp. (on a parent only basis) with its investment in its subsidiaries recorded under the equity method, (ii) guarantor subsidiaries expected to guarantee certain securities to be issued in connection with
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Three Months Ended June 29, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Income
Three Months Ended June 30, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
June 29, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets
March 30, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
Three Months Ended June 28, 2003
(Unaudited, in millions)
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows
Three Months Ended June 30, 2002
(Unaudited, in millions)
 


