FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20051221152230.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 1.01
              
MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENTS
 
On December 15, 2005, the Company entered into amendments to its credit and note agreements as follows:
 
Amendment No.2 to its Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement dated as of December 9, 2003, as amended by Amendment No.1 dated November 25, 2005 (the Note Agreement').  The amendment revises Section 10.1 (a) of the Note Agreement to extend the date for required delivery of the Company's financial statements for the quarter ended October 2, 2005 to January 31, 2006.  A copy of the amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Waiver to Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement dated as of January 31, 2001 (the Waiver').  The amendment revises Section 7.2(a) of the Existing Agreement to extend the date for required delivery of the Company's financial statements for the quarter ended October 2, 2005 to January 31, 2006.  A copy of the waiver is attached as Exhibit 10.2.
 
Amendment No. 2 to its Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of November 16, 2005 (the Credit Agreement').  The amendment revises Section 6.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement to extend the date for required delivery of the Company's financial statements for the quarter ended October 2, 2005 to January 31, 2006.  A copy of the amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.3.
 
These additional extensions are intended to accommodate the Company's delay in finalizing its financial statements and filing its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 2005, as previously disclosed in the Company's Form 12b-25 filed on November 15, 2005.
 
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Amendment No. 2 and Waiver to Note Agreement, dated December 15, 2005, among the Company and the several institutional holders of the SPS Notes Agreements.
10.1
            
Waiver to Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement dated December 15, 2005, among    the Company, Wachovia Bank and Blue Ridge Asset Funding Corporation.
10.2
            
Amendment No. 2 and Waiver to Credit Agreement, dated December 15, 2005, among the Company, Bank of America N.A. and the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
10.3
            
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
[Execution Copy]
 
As of December 15, 2005
 
To Each Noteholder Identified
 on the Signature Pages Hereof:
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is hereby made to the Amended and Restated Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2003, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of November 25, 2005 (the ""), by and between Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the ""), and the several institutional holders of the SPS Notes referred to below, which, in connection with the Merger referred to therein, provided for (i) the assumption by the Company of the obligations of SPS Technologies, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (""), under and in respect of the SPS Note Agreements and the SPS Notes referred to below, in each case as amended and restated pursuant to the Amended Note Agreement; (ii) the amendment and restatement as provided therein of:
Amended Note Agreement
Company
SPS
 
the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 17, 1996 (as theretofore amended, the ""), by and between SPS , and the institutional investors identified therein, pursuant to which SPS had theretofore issued and sold, and such institutional investors had purchased, SPS's 7.88% Series A Senior Notes due 2011 (the "") and its 7.70% Series B Senior Notes due 2011 (the "");
(a)
                                 
1996 SPS Note Agreement
1996 Series A Notes
1996 Series B Notes
 
the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 4, 1999 (as theretofore amended, the ""), by and between SPS and the institutional investors identified therein, pursuant to which SPS had theretofore issued and sold, and such institutional investors had purchased, SPS's 7.85% Series A Senior Notes due 2014 (the "") and its 7.75% Series B Senior Notes due 2009 (the ""); and
(b)
                                
1999 SPS Note Agreement
1999 Series A Notes
1999 Series B Notes
 
the Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 25, 2000 (as theretofore amended, the ("", and, together with the 1996
(c)
                                 
2000 SPS Note Agreement
SPS Note Agreement and the 1999 SPS Note Agreement, the ""), by and between SPS and the institutional investors identified therein, pursuant to which SPS had theretofore issued and sold, and such institutional investors had purchased, SPS's 8.37% Senior Notes due 2010 (the "", and, together with the 1996 Series A Notes, the 1996 Series B Notes, the 1999 Series A Notes and the 1999 Series B Notes, the "");
SPS Note Agreements
2000 Notes
SPS Notes
 
(iii) the amendment and restatement as provided therein of the SPS Notes of each series (as so amended and restated, the several series of SPS Notes are herein referred to, individually, as the "," the "," the "," the ," and the "," respectively, and, collectively, as the "");  and (iv) the delivery to each holder of an SPS Note of any series of an Amended Note of the corresponding series and in a principal amount equal to the then unpaid outstanding principal balance of such SPS Note.
Amended 1996 Series A Notes
Amended 1996 Series B Notes
Amended 1999 Series A Notes
Amended 1999 Series B Notes
Amended 2000 Notes
Amended Notes
 
Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this instrument (this "") shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Amended Note Agreement.  References herein to a "" of Amended Notes are intended as references to the Amended 1996 Series A Notes, the Amended 1996 Series B Notes, the Amended 1999 Series A Notes, the Amended 1999 Series B Notes or the Amended 2000 Notes.   On the date hereof the Amended Notes of each Series are held by the institutions (each a "") indicated as the holders thereof on the signature pages hereof.
Amendment
Series
Noteholder
 
For the reasons stated in the Form 12b-25 Notification of Late Filing dated November 15, 2005 (the ) which the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Company anticipates that it will not be able to deliver the quarterly financial statements for and in respect of its fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2005 within the period currently specified for such delivery to Noteholders in Section 10.1(a) of the Amended Note Agreement or within the period specified for such delivery to the indenture trustee under the Public Indenture.  Accordingly, the Company is desirous of:
"Notification of Late Filing"
 
amending such Section 10.1(a) as hereinafter provided in order to change the date by which it shall be required pursuant thereto to deliver to each Noteholder that is an Institutional Investor the Company's quarterly financial statements for and in respect of such fiscal quarter;  and
 (i)
                                 
 
obtaining a waiver by the Noteholders, as and to the extent hereinafter provided, of any Default or Event of Default arising under Section 14(f) of the Amended Note Agreement by reason of the Company's failure to deliver such quarterly financial statements for such fiscal quarter until such time as an "Event of Default" (as defined in the Public Indenture) shall occur as a result of such failure;
(ii)
                                 
 
and the Company has requested that each Noteholder agree to such amendment and such waiver.
 
The further provisions of this Amendment set forth the Company's understanding of its agreement with the respective Noteholders holding each Series of Notes concerning such requested amendment and waiver.
.  Section 10.1(a) of the Amended Note Agreement shall be amended and restated to be and to read in its entirety as follows:
1.
AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDED NOTE AGREEMENT
                                     
 
.
"(a)
 as soon as available, but in any event (i) not later than January 31, 2006 in the case of the fiscal quarter of the Company ending October 2, 2005, and (ii) within 55 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company (other than such fiscal quarter ending October 2, 2005), a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Company's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and certified by a Responsible Officer of the Company as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; and"
                       
Quarterly Statements
 
Each Noteholder by its execution and delivery of this Amendment,  hereby waives any Default or Event of Default pursuant to Section 14(f) of the Amended Note Agreement having occurred or to occur as a result of the Company's breach of Section 704 of the Public Indenture by failing to deliver the financial statements for the fiscal quarter of the Company ended October 2, 2005, as required therein, until such time as an "Event of Default" (as defined in the Public Indenture) under the Public Indenture shall have occurred as a result of the Company s failure to comply with such Section 704 thereof.
2.
WAIVER. 
                                     
 
.  In connection with the amendments and waivers provided for herein, the Company represents and warrants to and for the benefit of the Noteholders holding each Series of Amended Notes as follows:
3.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
                                     
 
The representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 8 of the Amended Note Agreement are true and correct in all material respects on the date hereof except to the extent such representations and warranties specifically relate to an earlier date and except to the extent of changes caused by or consisting of events, circumstances or transactions which are either not Material or have been disclosed by the Company in one or more periodic reports required or permitted to be made by it pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
3.1
                                
 
As of the date hereof, and after giving effect to this Amendment and the amendment of the Amended Note Agreement provided for in Section 1 hereof and after giving effect to the waiver provided for in Section 2 hereof, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under and within the meaning of the Amended Note Agreement.
3.2
                                
 
Not later than the effectiveness of the amendment of Section 10.1(a) of the Amended Note Agreement provided for in Section 1 of this Amendment and the waiver under Section 14(f) of the Amended Note Agreement provided for in Section 2 hereof, an amendment and waiver shall have become effective regarding the respective corresponding provisions of the Company's Credit Agreement, deferring until at least January 31, 2006 the date by which the
3.3
                                
Company shall be required to furnish pursuant thereto quarterly financial statements for and in respect of its fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2005 and waiving defaults or events of default thereunder resulting from the Company's breach of Section 704 of the Public Indenture (until such time as an "Event of Default" (as defined in the Public Indenture) shall have occurred as a result of such breach. After giving effect to the amendment provided for in Section 1 hereof, the waiver provided for in Section 2 hereof, and such amendment to and waiver under the Credit Agreement, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be subject to any requirement to deliver or furnish, prior to January 31, 2006, any financial statements for or in respect of the Company's fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2005, pursuant to any loan agreement, credit agreement, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, or other agreement or instrument (whether or not relating to borrowed money indebtedness) to which it is a party or by which it is bound, except for any other such requirement, including the requirement so to do pursuant to Section 704 of the Public Indenture, the failure to comply with which prior to such date could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any "Notice of Default" or other similar notice from the trustee or any holder of any of the Public Notes with respect to the Company's failure to deliver the financial statements for the fiscal quarter of the Company ended October 2, 2005 within the time provided by Section 704 of the Public Indenture.
3.4
                                
 
The circumstances described in the Notification of Late Filing have not had and could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
3.5
                                
 
  The amendment of the Amended Note Agreement and the waiver provided for in this Amendment shall not become effective until, and shall become effective upon, (i) the execution and delivery of counterparts of this Amendment by the Company and the Required Holders as provided in Section 20.1 of the Amended Note Agreement and (ii) the execution and delivery by each Subsidiary Guarantor of the form of Confirmation of Subsidiary Guarantors set forth below.
4.
EFFECTIVENESS.
                                     
 
Each Subsidiary Guarantor, by its execution and delivery of the Confirmation of Subsidiary Guarantors set forth below, hereby (i) acknowledges that it has received a copy of and is familiar with the terms and conditions of this Amendment and (ii) agrees that notwithstanding the terms and conditions of this Amendment, including without limitation the amendment of Section 10.1(a) of the Amended Note Agreement provided for in Section 1 hereof, the waiver provided for in Section 2 hereof, and any and all circumstances or occurrences referred to or described in the Notification of Late Filing, the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Guaranty and the obligations of such Subsidiary Guarantor thereunder are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
5.
CONFIRMATION OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTY. 
                                     
 
.  In accordance the Amended Note Agreement, the Company agrees to pay all reasonable expenses incurred by each Noteholder in connection with this Amendment, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of special counsel for the Noteholders.  This Amendment shall be construed together with and as part of the Amended Note Agreement.  Except as expressly amended pursuant to Section 1 and waived pursuant to Section 2 of this Amendment, the terms, covenants and conditions contained in the Amended Note Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects and, as so amended, the
6.
MISCELLANEOUS
                                     
Amended Note Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.  Any and all notices, requests, certificates and other instruments executed and delivered subsequent to the date of the effectiveness of this Amendment in respect of the Amended Note Agreement may refer to such Amended Note Agreement without making specific reference to this Amendment or to any prior amendment of or other modification to such Amended Note Agreement which shall have become effective in accordance with the terms of such Amended Note Agreement, and all such references nevertheless shall be deemed to include, unless the context otherwise requires, this Amendment and all such previously-effective amendments and modifications.  The descriptive headings of the sections and other subdivisions of this Amendment shall not affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.  THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.  This Amendment may be executed and accepted on separate counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.  In accordance with Section 20.2 of the Amended Note Agreement, the Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to each Noteholder, promptly after this Amendment becomes effective, true and correct copies of the executed counterparts of this Amendment.
 
If you are in agreement with the foregoing, please sign the appropriate form or forms of acceptance on the accompanying counterparts of this Agreement and return one of such counterparts to the Company.
 
Each of the undersigned Subsidiary Guarantors confirms and agrees as set forth in Section 5 above.
 
PCC STRUCTURALS, INC.
PCC AIRFOILS LLC
PCC SPECIALTY PRODUCTS, INC.
J&L FIBER SERVICES, INC.
ADVANCED FORMING TECHNOLOGY, INC.
WYMAN-GORDON COMPANY
PRECISION FOUNDERS INC.
WYMAN GORDON FORGINGS (CLEVELAND), INC.
WYMAN-GORDON FORGINGS LP
WYMAN-GORDON INVESTMENT CASTINGS, INC.
SPS TECHNOLOGIES, LLC (f/k/a STAR ACQUISITION, LLC)
PCC COMPOSITES, INC.
CARMET INVESTORS, INC.
CARMET COMPANY
WG WASHINGTON STREET LLC
WGF I LLC
WGF II LLC
WG FORGINGS 3 LLC
WG FORGINGS 2 LLC
INTERNATIONAL EXTRUDED PRODUCTS, LLC
CANNON-MUSKEGON CORPORATION
GREENVILLE METALS, INC.
GREEN STOP NUT, INC.
HOWELL PENNCRAFT, INC.
M. ARGUESO & CO., INC.
METALAC FASTENERS, INC.
NSS TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
SPS INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT COMPANY
SPS TECHNOLOGIES WATERFORD COMPANY
UNBRAKO, LLC
AVIBANK MFG., INC.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
(this ) is entered into as of December 15, 2005 among PRECISION RECEIVABLES CORP., a Delaware corporation (the ), PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP., a Delaware corporation (), Variable Funding Capital Company LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (), and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (f/k/a Wachovia Bank, N.A.), a national banking association, in its capacity as a Liquidity Bank to Blue Ridge (), and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (f/k/a Wachovia Bank, N.A.), as agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the ) and pertains to the Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement among the parties hereto, dated as of January 31, 2001 (as heretofore amended, the ).  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein are used with the meanings attributed thereto in the Existing Agreement.
THIS WAIVER TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
"Waiver"
"Borrower"
"PCC"
""
VFCC
"Wachovia"
"Agent"
"Existing Agreement"
 
, Blue Ridge assigned all of its right, title and interest in, to and under to the Existing Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to VFCC pursuant to the Assignment and Acceptance Agreement by and among Blue Ridge, VFCC and Agent, dated as of December 1, 2005;
WHEREAS
 
, the Loan Parties desire that the Agent and the Lenders agree to a waiver of certain financial reporting covenants in the Existing Agreement; and
WHEREAS
 
, the Agent and the Lenders are willing to agree to such waiver on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Waiver;
WHEREAS
 
, in consideration of the promises and mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE
 
1.
                                      
Partial Waiver of Section 7.2(a)(i) of the Existing Agreement
.  Solely with respect to PCC's obligation to deliver financial statements for the fiscal quarter ending October 2, 2005, the Agent and the Lenders hereby waive the provisions of Section 7.2(a)(i); provided that PCC furnishes to the Agent the financial statements and Certificate of Financial Officer required thereby for the fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2005 no later than January 31, 2006.
 
2.
                                      
Partial Waiver of Section 7.2(a)(ii) of the Existing Agreement
.  Solely with respect to Borrower's obligation to deliver financial statements for the fiscal quarter ending October 2, 2005, the Agent and the Lenders hereby waive compliance with the provisions of Section 7.2 (a)(ii); provided that Borrower furnishes to the Agent the financial statements and Certificate of Financial Officer required thereby for the fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2005 no later than January 31, 2006.
 
3.
                                      
Partial Waiver of Section 10.1(d)(ii) of the Existing Agreement
.
 
(a)
                                 
The Agent and the Lenders hereby waive any Defaults or Events of Default pursuant to Section 10.1(d)(ii)(B) of the Existing Agreement that have occurred or may occur
solely as a result of the breach of Section 10.1(a) of the Private Note Amendment (as defined in that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005 by, among others, PCC, as borrower thereunder, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent thereunder, as amended) due to the failure of PCC to deliver the financial statements required thereby for its fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2005; the waiver granted hereunder shall expire at such time, if any, as an "Event of Default" (under and as defined in the Private Note Amendment) arises by virtue of such breach of Section 10.1(a) thereof.
provided that
 
(b)
                                
The Agent and the Lenders hereby waive any Defaults or Events of Default pursuant to Section 10.1(d)(ii)(B) of the Existing Agreement that have occurred or may occur solely as a result of the breach of Section 704 of the Public Indenture (as defined in the Bank Credit Agreement) due to the failure of PCC to deliver the financial statements required thereby for PCC's fiscal quarter ended October 2, 2005; the waiver granted hereunder shall expire at such time, if any, as an "Event of Default" (under and as defined in the Public Indenture) arises by virtue of such breach of Section 704 thereof.
provided that
 
4.
                                      
Conditions to Effectiveness
.  This Waiver shall not be effective until the following conditions are satisfied:
 
(a)
                                 
the Agent has received signature page counterparts from each of the parties hereto; and
 
(b)
                                
the Agent has received an executed and effective waiver of the occurrence of any defaults or events of default pursuant to the breach of Section 10.1(a) of the Private Note Amendment and any cross-default provisions contained in the Private Note Amendment triggered by the breach of Sections 7.2(a)(i) and 7.2(a)(ii) of the Existing Agreement and Section 704 of the Public Indenture.
 
5.
                                      
Continuing Effect
.Except as expressly amended above, the Existing Agreement remains unaltered and in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
 
6.
                                      
Binding Effect
.  This Waiver shall become effective when it shall have been executed and delivered by each of the parties hereto and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Loan Parties, the Lenders, the Agent and their respective successors and assigns.
 
7.
                                      
Expenses
.  The Borrower agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration and enforcement of, or any breach of this Waiver, including without limitation the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel.
 
8.
                                      
GOVERNING LAW
.  THIS WAIVER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO THE CONFLICT OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF (OTHER THAN SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW)).
 
9.
                                      
Counterparts.
  This Waiver may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which when taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Waiver by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Waiver.

Exhibit 10.3
 
December 15, 2005
 
 
Precision Castparts Corp.
Executive Office, Suite 440wai
4650 S.W. Macadam Avenue
Portland, Oregon 97201-4254
Attention:  Mr. William D. Larsson
 
 
Re:          Amendment No. 2 and Waiver to Credit Agreement
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is hereby made to that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005 by and among , an Oregon corporation (the ""), as the Borrower, , a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as defined below)) (in such capacity, the ""), and the Lenders, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and Waiver to Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2005 (as so amended, as hereby amended and as from time to time hereafter amended, modified, supplemented, restated, or amended and restated, the "").  All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning given thereto in the Credit Agreement.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
Borrower
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
Administrative Agent
Credit Agreement
 
each of the Administrative Agent by its execution of this amendment letter (this "") and the Lenders, by execution of this Amendment Letter by the Required Lenders, as acknowledged by the Borrower, hereby agrees, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein:
Effective as of the date hereof, pursuant to the request of the Borrower,
Amendment Letter
 
(i)            to amend of the Credit Agreement by deleting such subsection in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
Section 6.01(b) 
 
(b)           as soon as available, but in any event not later than (i) January 31, 2006, for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended October 2, 2005, and (ii) the earlier of the day that is forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower and the day that is five days after the date required to be filed with the SEC (without giving effect to any
 
extension permitted by the SEC) for such fiscal quarter, commencing with the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended January 1, 2006, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Borrower's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and certified by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower as fairly presenting the financial condition, results of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
 
(ii)           to waive any and all Defaults or Events of Default pursuant to of the Credit Agreement having occurred or to occur as a result of a breach of of the Credit Agreement with respect to the Disclosed Matters (defined below) until January 31, 2006;
Section 8.01(c) 
Section 6.09
 
(iii)          to waive any Defaults or Events of Default pursuant to of the Credit Agreement having occurred or to occur as a result of the Borrower's breach of of the Private Note Amendment for the failure of the Borrower to deliver the financial statements for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended October 2, 2005, as required therein, until the date as of which the Borrower must comply with such Section pursuant to an amendment to the Private Note Amendment entered into on or prior to the date hereof (the "");
Section 8.01(e) 
Section 10.1(a) 
Second Amendment to the Private Note Amendment
 
(iv)          to waive any Defaults or Events of Default pursuant to of the Credit Agreement having occurred or to occur as a result of the Borrower's breach of of the Public Indenture for the failure of the Borrower to deliver the financial statements for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended October 2, 2005, as required therein, until such time as an "Event of Default" (as defined in the Public Indenture) under the Public Indenture shall have occurred as a result of the Borrower's failure to comply with ; and
Section 8.01(e) 
Section 704
Section 704
 
(v)           to waive any Defaults or Events of Default pursuant to of the Credit Agreement having occurred or to occur as a result of the Borrower's breach of of the Permitted Receivables Purchase Facility for the failure of the Borrower to deliver the financial statements for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended October 2, 2005, as required therein, until the later of (x) January 31, 2006 and (y) such date as of which the Borrower must comply with such Section to which the Majority Lenders (as defined in the Permitted Receivables Purchase Facility) under the Permitted Receivables Purchase Facility may agree.
Section 8.01(e) 
Section 7.2
 
The waivers set forth in this Amendment Letter are limited to the extent specifically set forth above and shall in no way serve to waive compliance with such Sections of the Credit
 
 
Agreement for any other period or to waive any other terms, covenants or provisions of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document or any obligations of the Borrower, other than as expressly set forth above.
 
The effectiveness of this Amendment Letter and the amendment and waivers provided herein are subject to the Administrative Agent having received each of the following documents or instruments in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent:
 
(a)           original counterparts of this Amendment Letter, duly executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders;
 
(b)           a fully-executed copy of the Second Amendment to the Private Notes Amendment; and
 
(c)           such other documents, instruments, opinions, certifications, undertakings, further assurances and other matters as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request.
 
In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Amendment Letter, the Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows:
 
(a)           the representations and warranties of the Borrower and each other Loan Party contained in of the Credit Agreement and in each of the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, and except that the representations and warranties contained in and of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to and , respectively; that, the representations in and with respect to the Borrower's financial statements as of March 30, 2005 and July 3, 2005 are qualified by the fact that certain accrued liability items, reserve accounts and related amortization and release amounts may need to be adjusted to conform with GAAP, and revenue from certain shipments may need to be included in the financial statements for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2005 rather than in the financial statements for the subsequent quarter, all as described in the Company's disclosure on Form 12b-25 filed November 15, 2005 (the "");
Article V
Sections 5.05(a)
(c)
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
provided
Section 5.05(a)
(b)
Disclosed Matters
 
(b)           neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any "Notice of Default" or other similar notice from the trustee or any holder of any of the Public Notes with respect to the Borrower's failure to deliver the financial statements for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended October 2, 2005 within the time provided by of the Public Indenture;
Section 704
 
(c)           since the date of the most recent financial reports of the Borrower delivered pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, no act, event, condition or
Section 6.01
circumstance (including the Disclosed Matters) has occurred or arisen which, singly or in the aggregate with one or more other acts, events, occurrences or conditions (whenever occurring or arising), has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
(d)           after giving effect to this Amendment Letter, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
 
None of the terms or conditions of this Amendment Letter may be changed, modified, waived, or canceled, except in the manner as provided in the Credit Agreement with respect to any such change, modification, waiver, or cancellation.  Except as specifically amended, modified or supplemented by this Amendment Letter, the Credit Agreement and all other Loan Documents are hereby confirmed and ratified in all respects and shall be and remain in full force and effect according to their respective terms.
 
Without limiting the provisions of of the Credit Agreement, the Borrower agrees to pay all reasonable out of pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation reasonable legal fees and expenses) incurred before or after the date hereof by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Amendment Letter.
Section 10.04
 
This Amendment Letter shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed and to be performed entirely within such State, and shall be further subject to the provisions of and of the Credit Agreement.
Sections 10.14
10.15
 
This Amendment Letter may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall together constitute one instrument.


