FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20050720171523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 2.02.
           
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On July 19, 2005, Precision Castparts Corp. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended July 3, 2005.  A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
PORTLAND, Oregon  July 19, 2006  Vigorous aerospace and industrial gas turbine (IGT) aftermarket sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, amplified by steady aerospace OEM growth and further market share gains, drove Precision Castparts Corp. (NYSE:PCP) to achieve significant year-over-year improvement in sales, net income, and earnings per share.
 
First Quarter FY2006 Financial Highlights
 
Precision Castparts Corp. reported first quarter fiscal 2006 sales of $854.6 million, a 27.9 percent increase over sales of $668.1 million in the first quarter of last year.  Net income from continuing operations grew from $50.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 to $77.7 million this year, resulting in earnings per share of $1.15 (diluted, based on 67.4 million shares outstanding), a 49.4 percent improvement over last year's earnings per share of $0.77 (diluted, based on 65.8 million shares outstanding).
 
Business Highlights
 
: Fueled by growing aftermarket demand and increasing OEM build schedules, Investment Cast Products sales were $387.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, an increase of 27.7 percent over sales of
Investment Cast Products
$303.4 million during the same period last year. Year-over year operating income grew by 35.6 percent, from $55.0 million in the first quarter of 2005 to $74.6 million this year.  Strong sales in the segment were driven by a number of factors, including aggressive IGT aftermarket growth; continued, year-over-year gains in the aerospace aftermarket; and rapidly escalating production of new Airbus and Boeing aircraft with significantly higher PCC dollar content.  Both the increased volume and operational efficiencies yielded margin improvements during the quarter.
 
: Similar market dynamics drove Forged Products sales.  Segment sales increased from $145.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 to sales of $204.0 million this year, of which $21.0 million was metal pass-through. Operating income was also up year over year, from $18.4 million last year to operating income of $22.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  In addition to the surging demand for commercial aerospace OEM and aftermarket forgings, the seamless, extruded pipe market continues to expand.  At the end of the first quarter, firm backlog stood at $250 million, and the combined Houston, Texas, and Livingston, Scotland, extrusion facilities have nearly doubled monthly shipments from this time last year.  During the quarter, pipe sales actively expanded into Asian markets beyond China, with deliveries to Korea and a new contract award in Japan.  Also contributing to top-line growth were aerospace market share gains on development and production military platforms.
Forged Products
 
: Vigorous aerospace OEM and replacement activity, boosted by continued market share gains, spurred Fastener Products sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  The Fastener Products segment reported sales of $202.6 million, compared with $164.1 million in the first quarter of last year.  These sales included Air Industries Corporation's (AIC) first full quarter of operations.  The segment's operating income was $31.1 million in the first quarter of 2006, versus $16.6 million last year.  As Fastener Products enters its second year as part of Precision Castparts, there continue to be opportunities for both margin improvement and
Fastener Products
market penetration in the base business, with AIC providing an additional catalyst for both top- and bottom-line growth.
 
: Continued growth within well-defined market niches proved key to Industrial Products' sales improvement in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  First quarter segment sales were $60.7 million, compared to sales of $55.5 million last year, while operating income was $11.7 million, versus $9.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, with operating margins improving year over year from 16.8 percent last year to 19.3 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2006.  The four businesses in this segment continue to capture market share with their highly engineered products and specialized processes, while improving productivity and increasing throughput.
Industrial Products
 
"Over the past few years, we have strategically built a solid platform for long-term growth," said Mark Donegan, chairman and chief executive officer of Precision Castparts Corp.  "Our company is now extremely well-positioned for additional upside in our major end markets, and the opportunities for further growth are real and near at hand.
 
"The IGT aftermarket has been a primary growth driver over the past several quarters," Donegan said.  "We are currently adding capacity in Ohio and Oregon to address significant IGT schedule increases.  In addition, the build rates for aerospace replacement and OEM requirements are steadily climbing, and we are ramping up production to support these accelerated schedules as well.
 
"Sales growth without profitability is meaningless, however," Donegan continued.  "We continue to find opportunities to improve productivity and to reduce our costs quarter after quarter in all of our operations, with Fastener Products providing abundant running room for future improvements.  The addition of AIC will help to take Fastener Products to unprecedented levels of operational performance, and
the segment continues to be our primary focus for further acquisition opportunities.
 
"As we stated at year-end, our business outlook shows steady sales and earnings improvement quarter after quarter for the foreseeable future," said Donegan.  "We are clearly focused on continued internal growth and on the strategic acquisition of businesses that strongly complement our core competencies.  Throughout our operations worldwide, we remain committed to leveraging each incremental sales dollar and finding additional avenues for profitable growth."
 
Precision Castparts Corp. is a worldwide, diversified manufacturer of complex metal components and products.  It serves the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and general industrial and other markets.  PCC is the market leader in manufacturing large, complex structural investment castings, airfoil castings, and forged components used in jet aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines.
 
Information included within this press release describing projected growth and future results and events constitutes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Actual results in future periods may differ materially from the forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to fluctuations in the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and other general industrial cycles; the relative success of the Company's entry into new markets; competitive pricing; the financial viability of the Company's significant customers; the availability and cost of energy, materials, supplies, insurance, and pension benefits; equipment failures; relations with the Company's employees; the Company's ability to manage its operating costs and to integrate acquired businesses in an effective manner; governmental regulations and environmental matters; risks associated with international operations and world economies; the relative stability of certain foreign currencies; and implementation of new technologies and process improvement.  Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of
these factors.  The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any forward-looking information to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of this document.
 
Precision Castparts Corp.'s press releases are available on the Internet at the PrimeZone Media Network's website  http://www.PrimeZone.com or PCC's home page at http://www.precast.com.
 
 
 
(1)       Reported results for the three months ended June 27, 2004 have been restated for discontinued operations.
(2)       Operating income represents earnings before interest and income taxes.
 


