FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20061219153154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On December 14, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") amended and restated, effective as of January 1, 2005, the Company's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated, the "EDC Plan"). The amendments were intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as guidance on Section 409A issued by the Internal Revenue Service ("Section 409A Requirements").
On December 14, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company amended and restated the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (as amended and restated, the "SERP"). The amendments were intended (i) to comply with Section 409A Requirements, and (ii) to make certain additional design changes to the SERP that will be applicable only to participants whose benefits were not earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005.
The following is a summary of the amendments to the EDC Plan and to the SERP. Each summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the applicable plan or component thereof filed as an exhibit hereto.
Amended and Restated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
The EDC Plan continues to provide an elective deferred compensation arrangement for a select group of management and highly compensated employees ("Executives"), including named executive officers of the Company. Under the amended EDC Plan, Executives will continue to have a single account in the EDC Plan with one set of investment options. Executives who participated in the Plan prior to January 1, 2005 will have both a pre-2005 subaccount and a post-2004 subaccount. Because some Section 409A restrictions do not apply to amounts earned and vested before January 1, 2005, the creation of separate subaccounts allows an executive to retain greater flexibility to elect the time and manner of payment in the pre-2005 subaccount.
In addition to the creation of subaccounts, the material amendments to the Plan include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing summary of the amendments to the EDC Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan. A copy of the EDC Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Amendments to Supplemental Executive Retirement Program
The SERP continues to provide supplemental retirement benefits for key employees of the Company who are designated for participation by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, including named executive officers of the Company. The amended SERP consists of two component partsa frozen SERP (the "Frozen Plan") that provides benefits only for participants who had vested benefits as of December 31, 2004, and an ongoing SERP (the "Ongoing Plan") only for participants who did not have vested benefits as of December 31, 2004. No participants have benefits under both the Frozen Plan and Ongoing Plan. The Ongoing Plan is comprised of two subcomponents that existed prior to amendment: a Level 1 Plan and Level 2 Plan. All Ongoing Plan amendments are equally applicable to the Level 1 Plan and the Level 2 Plan.
In addition to the creation of the Frozen Plan and the Ongoing Plan, the amendments to the SERP include the following changes:
.
Amendments Required by Section 409A
The Frozen Plan provides for minor Section 409A-required changes for benefits accrued by Frozen Plan participants for covered employment after December 31, 2004. Vested benefits as of that date are preserved without modification due to Section 409A.
The Section 409A-related changes in the Ongoing Plan affect benefits accrued for all covered employment and include the following:
 
 
 
 
SERP Design Changes
In addition to amendments made to ensure compliance with Section 409A, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has further modified the Ongoing Plan as follows:
(a) The benefit reduction for starting benefits before age 65 is reduced from six percent to three percent for each year by which the date of the participant's age at early retirement precedes age 65.
(b) The age and service requirements for vesting and for eligibility for early retirement are changed to apply on the later of (i) the date the participant has earned at least 10 years of eligible service, and (ii) the date on which the total of the participant's years of eligible service, when combined with the participant's age, equals at least 70.
The foregoing summary of the amendments to the SERP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Frozen Plan, Level 1 Plan, and Level 2 Plan (the "SERP Plans"). Copies of the SERP Plans are filed as Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 hereto, respectively.
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") adopted the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "plan") to create a deferred compensation arrangement for a select group of management or highly compensated employees ("Executives") whose deferred compensation under the Company's other retirement plans may be restricted by law or otherwise may not provide fully for their retirement benefit needs. In order to conform to new requirements for nonqualified deferred compensation established by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company adopts this 2005 Restatement as an amendment to the plan on the terms set forth below. This 2005 Restatement provides for maintenance of separate Subaccounts for Participants with deferred amounts earned and vested as of December 31, 2004, to which the requirements of Section 409A do not apply.
 
The plan shall apply to the Company and to any Affiliate that employs an eligible employee. "Affiliate" means a corporation or other entity that is more than 50% owned by the Company.
1.1
The Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO") of the Company shall appoint one or more employees of the Company as Administrator of the plan. The Administrator shall interpret and administer the plan and for that purpose may make, amend or revoke rules and regulations at any time. The Administrator shall have absolute discretion to carry out responsibilities established under this plan.
1.2
 
The following employees of the Company or an Affiliate will be eligible to participate in the plan, subject to Section 2.2:
2.1
(a) Executives covered under the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Program.
(b) Any additional Executives designated by the CEO.
Executives may be removed from eligibility prospectively by the CEO.
2.2
An eligible Executive may elect as provided below to defer a whole number percentage of the Executive's salary or bonuses or both ("Compensation"). The maximum deferral percentage is 100% for salary and 100% for bonuses. The CEO may change the maximum deferral percentage on or before December 31 to be effective for succeeding calendar years. An eligible Executive may elect to defer a stated dollar amount of bonus, which shall apply if the actual bonus is larger than the stated dollar amount. If the actual bonus is smaller than the stated dollar amount, 100% of the bonus shall be deferred. An election shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator.
2.3
An election to defer Compensation shall be effective as follows:
2.4
(a) Except as provided in (b), (c), and (d), a deferral election received by the Administrator on or before December 31 of any year shall be effective for Compensation earned in the succeeding calendar year. A new deferral election must be made for each calendar year.
(b) An election to defer a bonus earned in a period of 12 months or more shall be effective if received by the Administrator no later than six months before the end of such period.
(c) In the first year in which an Executive becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, the newly eligible Executive may make an election to defer salary for services to be performed subsequent to the election within 30 days after the date the Executive first becomes eligible. The election shall be effective for salary earned beginning with the next calendar month beginning after the election is received by the Administrator.
(d) If the Executive becomes eligible to participate in the Plan during a calendar year and will earn a bonus over a period of less than 12 months that falls partially or entirely in that calendar year, the Executive may elect to defer up to a percentage of the total bonus earned in such period by submitting the election to the Administrator within 30 days after the eligibility date. The maximum percentage of the bonus shall be determined by dividing the number of months remaining in such period as of the end of the month in which the election is submitted by the total number of months over which the bonus is earned.
(e) A deferral election shall become irrevocable after the date it is due under (a) through (d).
The Company may reduce the amount of deferred Compensation by any FICA or other tax withholding to which the deferred amount is subject or may take the withholding from the Executive's non-deferred Compensation.
2.5
 
The Company shall deduct from an Executive's Compensation as applicable and credit to an Executive Deferred Compensation Account (the "Account") each Compensation amount deferred under this plan. The Account shall be credited as of the day the Compensation would otherwise have been paid to the Executive. Deferred amounts earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 shall be maintained as a separate Pre-2005 Subaccount within the Account and adjusted for investment performance under 3.2 in order to measure the amounts not subject to the restrictions of Section 409A. The balance of the Account shall be a Post-2004 Subaccount.
3.1
Until full payment of an Account balance has been made to the Executive or beneficiaries entitled to the amount identified by the Account (the "Participant"), the Company shall credit or debit the Account, as the case may be, for investment performance as follows:
3.2
(a) The investment result shall be determined by the Performance Option(s) selected by the Participant. A Participant may select more than one Performance Option in accordance with procedures designated by the Administrator.
(b) Participants may select Performance Options under Section 3.2(c), and, except for selections made with respect to the Phantom Stock Fund, may change an existing selection, on any business day and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator, such change to be effective on the next business day. Except for selections made with respect to the Phantom Stock Fund, a change in a Participant's selection of one or more Performance Options shall apply only to the existing amounts in the Participant's Account, only to future deferral amounts, or to both, as selected by the Participant. Changes by a Participant with respect to the Phantom Stock Fund Performance Option (other than changes relating to the settlement of Phantom Stock Units, as defined below, in shares of Company Common Stock) shall be governed by Section 4.4.
(c) The Performance Options shall be as follows:
(i) The commercial prime lending rate of the Bank of America or its successor, plus 2 percentage points, as in effect from time to time ("Prime Rate plus 2 percent").
(ii) The Phantom Stock Fund (as described in Part 4).
(iii) Other Performance Options shall be those listed in Appendix A. The CEO shall have authority to add new Performance Options to the list in Appendix A and to remove Performance Options from the list, subject to Section 7.2(b).
 
(d) When the Prime Rate plus 2 percent Performance Option has been selected, Accounts shall be revalued daily based on the current rate in effect.
(e) When the Phantom Stock Fund Performance Option has been selected, Accounts shall be credited, debited and revalued as provided in Section 4.2
(f) When any of the Performance Options listed in Appendix A has been selected, amounts deferred shall be credited as equivalent shares at the closing price on the day of the deferral. All equivalent shares shall be revalued up or down daily to the closing price.
(g) Upon a change of selection from a Performance Option listed in Appendix A, the Account shall be credited or debited, as the case may be, based on the value of the equivalent shares at the closing price on the business day preceding the day on which the change takes effect.
Each Participant's Account shall be maintained on the books of the Company until full payment has been made to the Participant entitled to the amount identified by the Account. No assets shall be set aside or earmarked to fund the Account, which shall be purely a bookkeeping device.
3.3
 
(a) "Phantom Stock Fund" refers to a Performance Option tied to the performance of the Company's Common Stock, as described more specifically in this Part 4.
4.1
(b) "Current Executive" refers to an Executive who is currently a Company employee, officer or director or has been a Company employee or officer or served on the Company's Board in the previous six months. "Former Executive" refers to an Executive who has not been a Company employee or officer or served on the Company's Board in the previous six months.
(c) Provisions of this Part 4 contain special rules applicable to the Phantom Stock Fund. However, unless otherwise expressly provided, the Phantom Stock Fund is subject to all of the plan provisions applicable to other Performance Options.
(a) (i) The part of a Participant's Account that is allocated to the Phantom Stock Fund, if any, shall be credited or debited, as the case may be, as if it were 100% invested in Common Stock of the Company. Each amount credited to the Phantom Stock Fund shall be credited in units ("Phantom Stock Units"), which Phantom Stock Units shall be calculated by dividing the amount credited to the Phantom Stock Fund by the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of crediting. Fractional Phantom Stock Units shall be credited to three decimal points.
4.2
 
(ii) Phantom Stock Units in a Participant's Account shall be revalued up or down daily to the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange.
(iii) If a Former Executive (or a beneficiary entitled to the amount identified by such Former Executive's Account) changes a Performance Option selection such that existing amounts in the Former Executive's Account are debited from the Phantom Stock Fund, the Account shall be adjusted based on the value of Phantom Stock Units on the last business day prior to the date of debiting, as determined by the closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on such date. Fractional Phantom Stock Units shall be debited to three decimal points.
(b) To the extent cash dividends are paid on the Company's Common Stock, a Participant's Account shall be credited with phantom dividends, which shall equal the per-share dividend paid on the Company's Common Stock multiplied by the number of Phantom Stock Units in a Participant's Account on the record date for the dividend. Phantom dividends shall be credited to an Account in the form of additional Phantom Stock Units (calculated in the manner described in Section 4.2(a)).
(c) In the event of any change in the Company's Common Stock by reason of a recapitalization, reclassification, stock split, reverse stock split, combination of shares or similar transaction, the number of Phantom Stock Units held by a Participant under the plan shall be proportionately adjusted.
No voting or other rights of any kind associated with ownership of the Company's Common Stock shall inure to a Participant by virtue of the allocation of all or any part of an Account to the Phantom Stock Fund.
4.3
(a) An Executive may select the Phantom Stock Fund Performance Option to apply to future deferrals of bonuses. Under no circumstances may an Executive select the Phantom Stock Fund Performance Option to apply to future deferrals of salary.
4.4
(b) One time each calendar year, on a date set by the Administrator, a Participant who is currently a Company employee or officer or serving on the Company's Board may change his or her Performance Option selection applicable to the existing amounts in his or her Account to provide for all or a part of such existing amounts to be credited to the Phantom Stock Fund. A Current Executive may not under any circumstances change his or her Performance Option selection with respect to the existing amounts in his or her Account to provide for any part of such existing amounts to be debited from the Phantom Stock Fund.
 
(c) On any business day, a Former Executive (or a beneficiary entitled to the amount identified by such Former Executive's Account) may, in a manner prescribed by the Administrator, change a Phantom Stock Fund Performance Option selection such that existing amounts in the Former Executive's Account are debited from the Phantom Stock Fund. Such a change will be effective on the next business day. Neither a Former Executive nor a beneficiary entitled to the amount identified by such Former Executive's Account may under any circumstances change a Phantom Stock Fund Performance Option selection to provide for any existing amounts in the Former Executive's Account to be credited to the Phantom Stock Fund.
(a) Subject only to Sections 6.1 and 4.5(b), payments or withdrawals with respect to the Phantom Stock Units in a Current Executive's Account may not be made or commence under any circumstances (and regardless of the manner of payment selected under Sections 5.2 and 5.3) until the Executive becomes a Former Executive.
4.5
(b) With respect to any Executive, the CEO may waive in writing the provisions of Sections 4.5(a), 5.1(a), 5.2(a) and 5.2(b) that restrict the date or dates on which cash payments may be made on account of Phantom Stock Units.
 
Subject to Sections 5.4, 5.5, 6.1 and 7.3, the Account shall be paid or payment commenced after one of the following dates as selected under Section 5.3(a):
5.1
(a) The date the Executive has a separation from service with the Company under 5.7, , that, subject only to Sections 6.1 and 4.5(b), no cash payments shall be payable with respect to Phantom Stock Units until the date that is two days after the date on which the Executive becomes a Former Executive; or
provided, however
(b) The date that is from 1 to 20 whole years (as elected by the Executive) after the Executive's separation from service in Section 5.1(a).
The manner of payment of the Account shall be in one or a combination of the following, as selected under Section 5.3(b):
5.2
(a) (i) In the case of payments with respect to Performance Options other than the Phantom Stock Fund, in a single lump sum as soon as practicable after the next December 31 following the date described in Section 5.1(a) or 5.1(b), whichever applies (subject to Sections 5.4, 5.5, 6.1 and 7.3); or
(ii) In the case of cash payments with respect to Phantom Stock Units, in a single lump sum as soon as practicable after the next December 31 following the date described in Section 5.1(a) or 5.1(b), whichever applies, , that no payment with respect to Phantom Stock Units shall be made before the date that is two days after the date on which the Executive becomes a Former Executive (subject only to Sections 6.1 and 4.5(b)); or
provided, however
 
(iii) In the case of shares of the Company's Common Stock paid on account of the value of Phantom Stock Units (excluding fractional Phantom Stock Units), in a single lump sum of shares of Company Common Stock within a period of time set by the Administrator and measured from the end date of the Executive's service as a Company employee or officer or member of the Company's Board (which period shall not exceed 30 days), , that payments with respect to any fractional Phantom Stock Units in a Current Executive's Account shall be governed by Sections 4.5, 5.1 and 5.2(a)(ii).
provided, however
(b) In 2 to 20 substantially equal annual installments (as elected by the Executive), subject to the following. If an Executive postpones commencement of payment by selecting a date under Section 5.1(b), the number of years of postponement elected under Section 5.1(b) plus the number of installments elected under this Section 5.2(b) shall not total more than 20. The size of installments shall be fixed so as to be substantially equal based on an assumed return on the Performance Options in the Account over the payment period. The Administrator shall select the assumed rate, which may be changed each year to reflect actual experience and variations in expected future investment returns.
(i) Installment payments with respect to Performance Options other than the Phantom Stock Fund shall be payable as soon as practicable after each December 31, commencing with the December 31 following the date described in Section 5.1(a) or 5.1(b), whichever applies (subject to Sections 5.4, 5.5, 6.1 and 7.3).
(ii) Installment payments with respect to Phantom Stock Units shall be payable as soon as practicable after each December 31, commencing with the December 31 following the date described in Section 5.1(a) or 5.1(b), whichever applies, , that no initial installment payment with respect to Phantom Stock Units shall be made before the date that is two days after the date on which the Executive becomes a Former Executive (subject only to Sections 6.1 and 4.5(b)).
provided, however
The time and manner of payment under Sections 5.1 and 5.2 shall be selected by the Executive as follows:
5.3
(a) The selection of payment time under Section 5.1 shall be made in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator. Subject to 5.4, the selection may be changed by a subsequent selection, which shall be effective if delivered to the Administrator at least 12 months prior to the Executive's separation from service with the Company. If the Executive's separation from service occurs prior to 12 months after a changed selection is delivered, the prior selection shall apply.
 
(b) The selection of the manner of payment under Section 5.2 shall be made in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator. Subject to 5.4, the selection may be changed by a subsequent selection, provided payment under the prior selection had not already commenced. The changed selection shall be effective if delivered to the Administrator at least 12 months prior to the date in Section 5.1(a), 5.1(b) or 5.2(a)(iii), whichever applies to the Executive. Until the changed selection becomes effective, the prior selection shall remain in effect.
If the selection of payment time under 5.3(a) or of manner of payment under 5.3(b) is changed after the later of the due date for the election to defer such amounts or December 31, 2006, the payment time shall be at least five years later than the payment time previously in effect and the change shall not accelerate the time of payment. The preceding sentence shall not apply to a Pre-2005 Subaccount. An Executive with Subaccounts may limit the change in selection of payment time or manner of payment to the Pre-2005 Subaccount or may select different changes with respect to the two Subaccounts.
5.4
An Executive or surviving spouse may withdraw the Executive's entire Pre-2005 Subaccount at any time before it otherwise would be payable (except for cash withdrawals of amounts in the Executive's Account that are allocated to the Phantom Stock Fund, which withdrawals shall be governed by Section 4.5). The amount paid on such a withdrawal shall be discounted ten percent from the stated balance of the Pre-2005 Subaccount. The ten percent discount shall be forfeited as a penalty for early withdrawal.
5.5
If an Executive's employment with the Company ends involuntarily by separation from service within 24 months after a Change in Control as defined in Section 10.1, the Executive's Pre-2005 Subaccount, except for amounts that are allocated to the Phantom Stock Fund, shall be paid in one lump sum within 30 days after termination of employment, regardless of the otherwise applicable election. Upon a Change in Control as defined in Section 10.2, an Executive's Post-2004 Subaccount, except for amounts that are allocated to the Phantom Stock Fund, shall be paid in one lump sum within 60 days after the Change in Control is consummated, regardless of the otherwise applicable election. Payment of amounts in an Executive's Account that are allocated to the Phantom Stock Fund shall be governed by Sections 4.5, 5.2(a)(ii) and 5.2(a)(iii).
5.6
Separation from service shall occur upon termination of all the Executive's employment with the Company or any entity that is a member, with the Company, of a controlled group of corporations or commonly controlled trades or businesses, as defined in Sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code (an "Affiliate"). The Executive shall not be regarded as having a separation from service if:
5.7
(a) The Executive is on leave from the employer for up to six months or for longer with reemployment rights protected by statute or contract; or
 
(b) The Executive provides services to the employer in a capacity other than as an employee at a rate of 50 percent or more of the level before termination and for remuneration at an annual rate of 50 percent or more of the Executive's average rate of remuneration as an employee in the last three years of employment or all years if fewer than three.
If the Executive is a Specified Employee and the Company or any Affiliate has publicly traded stock, the Executive's Account shall not be paid to the Executive upon a separation from service until six months following the separation date. All amounts due during such six months shall be paid as soon as practicable after the six months has expired. The preceding two sentences shall not apply to a Pre-2005 Subaccount. "Specified Employee" means a "key employee" as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code, determined without regard to Section 416(i)(5). The definition of key employee shall be applied by identifying the highest paid 50 employees of the Company and Affiliates during the preceding calendar year.
5.8
The Company may withhold from payments to an Executive any income tax or other amounts as required by law.
5.9
 
An Executive's Account shall be payable under Section 6.3 on the Executive's death regardless of the provisions of Part 5 or Section 4.5.
6.1
On death of an Executive the Account shall be paid in the following order of priority:
6.2
(a) To the surviving beneficiaries designated by the Executive in writing to the Administrator on a form prescribed by the Administrator for that purpose, or if none then
(b) To the Executive's surviving spouse, or if none then
(c) To the Executive's surviving children in equal shares, or if none then
(d) To the Executive's estate.
The manner of payment under Section 6.1 shall be as follows:
6.3
(a) If the beneficiary is the surviving spouse and the Executive elected installments but died before starting to receive payments, the spouse's payments shall begin as soon as practicable after the following December 31 and the period selected under Section 5.2(b) for the Executive's payments shall govern. If the Executive had already started receiving installments, the surviving spouse shall receive the installments for the remainder of the term selected by the Executive.
 
(b) If the beneficiary is the surviving spouse and the Executive did not elect installments, or if the beneficiary is not the surviving spouse, a lump sum shall be paid as soon as practicable to the beneficiary.
On death of a surviving spouse receiving installments under Section 6.3(a), the Account shall be paid in a single sum to the spouse's estate as soon as practicable after death.
6.4
 
The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") may terminate this plan effective the first day of any calendar year after notice to the eligible Executives. On termination, amounts in an Account shall remain to the credit of the Account, shall continue to be adjusted and shall be paid in accordance with Parts 4, 5, 6, or 7, as applicable.
7.1
The plan may be amended at any time by any of the following methods:
7.2
(a) The Board may adopt any amendment to the plan.
(b) The CEO may amend this plan to make any change that does not result in a material increase in the Company's costs.
(c) The CEO may amend this plan to make technical, editorial or operational changes on advice of counsel to comply with applicable law or to simplify or clarify the plan. The CEO may delegate this amendment authority.
If the Internal Revenue Service rules that any amounts deferred under this plan will be subject to current income tax, all amounts to which the ruling is applicable shall be paid within 30 days to all Participants with Accounts (except for amounts allocated to the Phantom Stock Fund, which payment of such amounts shall be governed by Sections 4.5, 5.2(a)(ii) and 5.2(a)(iii)).
7.3
 
Any Participant claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under the plan, or requesting information under the plan shall present the request in writing to the Administrator, who shall respond in writing as soon as practicable.
8.1
If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial shall state the following:
8.2
(a) The reasons for denial, with specific reference to the plan provisions on which the denial is based.
(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation of why it is necessary.
(c) An explanation of the plan's review procedure.
 
The initial notice of denial shall normally be given within 90 days after receipt of the claim. If special circumstances require an extension of time, the claimant shall be so notified and the time limit shall be 180 days.
8.3
Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has not received a response within 30 days may request review by notice in writing to the Administrator. The original decision shall be reviewed by the Administrator which may, but shall not be required to, grant the claimant a hearing. On review, whether or not there is a hearing, the claimant may have representation, examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.
8.4
The decision on review shall ordinarily be made within 60 days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing or other special circumstances, the claimant shall be so notified and the time limit shall be 120 days. The decision shall be in writing and shall state the reasons and the relevant plan provisions. All decisions on review shall be final and bind all parties concerned.
8.5
 
The promise to pay amounts deferred under this plan shall be an unfunded, unsecured obligation of the Company, except as follows. The Company maintains a trust with a financial institution for payment of benefits under this and other nonqualified plans. The trust is a grantor trust for tax purposes and provides that any assets contributed to the trustee shall be used exclusively for payment of benefits under the nonqualified plans except in the event the Company becomes insolvent, in which case the trust fund shall be held for payment of the Company's obligations to its general creditors.
9.1
The plan is intended to be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. Even if specific assets are set aside or earmarked for Company financial planning purposes or for other reasons, that shall not cause this plan to be a funded employee benefit plan for tax purposes or for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
9.2
Any notice under this plan shall be in writing or by electronic means and shall be received when actually delivered or, if mailed, when deposited postpaid as first class mail. Mail should be directed to the Company at the address stated in this plan, to an Executive at the address stated in the Executive's election, to a beneficiary entitled to benefits at the address stated in the Executive's beneficiary designation, or to such other address as the Executive or beneficiary may specify by notice to the Administrator.
9.3
The interests of a Participant under this plan are personal and no such interest may be assigned, seized by legal process or in any way subjected to the claims of any creditor. The foregoing limitation prohibits, for example, any alienation, anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment or garnishment by creditors of the Participant.
9.4
 
For purposes of payment of the Pre-2005 Subaccount, a "Change in Control" of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred if:
10.1
(a) Any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
(b) During any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted a majority of the Board cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the nomination or election of such new directors was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period;
(c) The stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other company or statutory plan of exchange involving the Company ("Merger"), other than (1) a Merger which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after the Merger or (2) a Merger effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 20 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(d) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
For purposes of payment of the Post-2004 Subaccount a "Change in Control" of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred if there has been a change in ownership of the Company under (a), a change in effective control of the Company under (b), or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets under (c):
10.2
(a) A change in ownership occurs on the date that any one person or more than one person acting as a group acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock already held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of the Company's stock.
(i) A change in ownership will not be deemed to occur if, before the person or group acquires additional Company stock, the person or group acquiring Company stock owned, or is treated as owning, more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of Company stock.
 
(ii) An increase in the ownership percentage of the person or group as a result of a transaction in which the Company redeems its stock for cash or other property will be treated as an acquisition by the person or group.
(iii) Ownership of stock will be determined by applying the rules in Code section 318(a) and by treating stock underlying a vested option as owned by the individual who holds the vested option, unless the stock to which the option applies is not substantially vested as defined in Treasury regulation section 1.83-3(b) and (j).
(iv) Persons will be considered as acting as a group to acquire or hold Company stock or effective control of the Company to the extent provided by applicable regulations or other written guidance published by the Internal Revenue Service.
(b) A change in effective control of the Company shall occur, regardless whether a change in ownership occurs under (a), on the date that an event described in (i) or (ii) occurs, subject to (iii).
(i) A change in effective control occurs on the date that any one person or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period that ends on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) ownership of Company stock possessing more than 35-percent of the total voting power of the Company's stock.
(ii) A change in effective control also occurs on the date that a majority of the Company's board of directors is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose election is not endorsed by a majority of the Company's board members prior to the date of election or appointment.
(iii) A change in effective control will not result from the acquisition of additional control of the company by any person or group that, immediately before such acquisition, owned more than 35 percent of the total voting power of the Company's stock.
 
(c) A change in ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets occurs on the date that any person or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) Company assets with a total gross fair market value equal to 40 percent or more of the total gross fair market value of all of the Company's assets immediately prior to the acquisition (or series of acquisitions).
(i) Gross fair market value for this purpose means the value of the Company's assets or the value of the assets being disposed of, without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
(ii) No Change in Control occurs solely because the Company transfers assets to an entity controlled by the Company's shareholders immediately after the transfer.
(iii) No change in ownership of the Company's assets is deemed to occur solely by reason of a transfer of the Company's assets to any of the following:
(A) A shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for the Company's stock.
(B) An entity, half or more of whose total value or voting power is owned by he Company (directly or indirectly).
(C) A person or group that owns (directly or indirectly) 50 percent or more of the value or voting power of all of the Company's outstanding shares.
(D) An entity, half or more of whose total value or voting power is owned (directly or indirectly) by a person who owns 50 percent or more of the value or voting power of the Company's outstanding shares.
 
This 2005 Restatement shall be effective January 1, 2005. Except as specifically provided in this 2005 Restatement for Pre-2005 Subaccounts, its provisions shall apply to all amounts held under the plan. Procedures for changes from provisions of the plan as in effect before this 2005 Restatement shall be implemented according to a schedule established by the Administrator.
 
 
In addition to the Prime Rate plus 2 percent and Phantom Stock Fund Performance Options, the following Performance Options shall be available:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the Company), adopted the Precision Castparts Corp. Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (the Program) effective February 1, 1989 to provide supplemental retirement benefits for certain key employees as an incentive for them to develop careers with the Company and to perform with a degree of excellence that would promote the best interests of the Company. Effective January 1, 1998 the Program was divided into two plans: the Precision Castparts Corp. Supplemental Executive Retirement Program - Level One Plan (SERP - Level One) and the Precision Castparts Corp. Supplemental Executive Retirement Program - Level Two Plan (SERP - Level Two) (collectively referred to herein as the Prior Plans). Several amendments to the Prior Plans were adopted prior to October 3, 2004. No amendments to either of the Prior Plans were adopted during the period from October 3, 2004 through December 31, 2004.
The Company adopts the following restatement of the Prior Plans effective immediately upon the close of the Prior Plans' 2004 plan year (December 31, 2004) to limit eligibility to participants who had a vested accrued benefit under the Prior Plans on December 31, 2004 and are not designated for participation with respect to ongoing employment in 2005 or afterward in a defined benefit-type executive deferred compensation plan other than this Plan maintained by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company to preserve the Prior Plans' terms for vested accrued benefits as of December 31, 2004 to the extent permitted by Internal Revenue Code (Code) Section 409A (409A), to provide (without modifying the Prior Plans' terms except as required by 409A) for ongoing accruals for participants in ongoing Plan-covered employment after December 31, 2004, and to change the Prior Plans' name in this restatement consolidating the Prior Plans to Precision Castparts Corp. Frozen Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (this Plan).
This Plan is designed only for benefits that were both vested and accrued as of December 31, 2004 and for additional benefits accrued on 409A-compliant terms with respect to employment after December 31, 2004 by any executives continuing in Plan-covered employment after December 31, 2004 as provided in the attached 409A Supplement. It is intended that all vested, accrued benefits as of December 31, 2004 provided in this Plan qualify for exemption from requirements under 409A. If any such benefits for a participant are enhanced such that they do not qualify for exemption from 409A requirements, the enhancement must provide entirely for the affected participant's benefits outside this Plan, including compliance with 409A, and no benefits will be provided to the participant under this Plan.
 
As of January 1, 2005, this Plan covers the following persons who were participants under SERP - Level One as of December 31, 2004:
1.1-1
(a) Persons who were retired and receiving benefits as of that date, and
(b) Persons who were receiving benefits as of that date as a surviving spouse of a previously-retired participant, and
(c) Persons (if any) who, as of that date, were in ongoing Plan-covered employment and eligible for early retirement but had not yet started to receive benefits because they had not yet retired, but only if such persons are not designated for participation as of that date in a defined benefit plan like this one that is maintained by the Company or by an Affiliate of the Company. "Affiliate" means a corporation or other business that is more than 50 percent owned by the Company.
As of January 1, 2005, this Plan covers one person who was a participant under SERP - Level Two as of December 31, 2004. That individual retired and started receiving benefits prior to December 31, 2004. His benefit has been determined with reference to the formula in SERP  Level Two plan document as in effect when he retired. This Plan provides for continuing payment of his benefit. The benefit formula under this Plan does not alter the benefit payable to him.
1.1-2
 
No employees shall newly become eligible for participation under this Plan after December 31, 2004, and no participants in any other retirement benefit plan shall have their accrued benefits transferred into this Plan after December 31, 2004. As of January 1, 2005, this Plan covers only the following persons:
(a) Persons identified in 1.1, and
(b) Persons (if any) becoming qualified to receive benefits as the surviving spouse of a person identified in (a) above.
 
The Committee may remove an employed participant from this Plan on a prospective basis, with or without cause. Removal does not apply to participants who have retired and started receiving benefits. The "Administrator" for this Plan appointed by the Committee shall notify the participant in writing within 30 days after Committee action establishing the removal. The effective date of removal shall be the date of adoption of the Committee action. Retirement shall cause a participant to be removed from participation in the sense of no longer accruing any Plan-credited service, and Compensation received after retirement shall not be counted for purposes of Plan benefits. A rehired retiree may resume such service accruals and pay recognition only if approved for future participation by the Committee at or after rehire.
1.3-1
 
Following any removal under 1.3-1, the following shall apply:
1.3-2
(a) The removal, in itself, shall not cause an immediate commencement of benefits or a forfeiture of benefits.
(b) No further Years of Benefit Service shall be counted following the date of removal.
(c) The amounts described in 2.1-5(a) and (b) shall not change after removal, but the amounts described in 2.1-5(c) may change due to further accruals or other increases in the Retirement Plan Benefit and Primary Social Security Benefit.
(d) The pre-retirement spousal death benefit, if applicable under 4.1-3, shall end 30 days after notice of removal is given.
(e) If the participant is married at removal and remains married until the benefit start date, the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-2, as well as any election under 3.2-2 to increase the survivor annuity from 50% to 100% shall continue to apply. If the participant is married at removal and is unmarried or married to a different spouse at the benefit start date, the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-2 shall not apply. If the participant is unmarried at removal but becomes married prior to the benefit start date, the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-2 shall not apply, but the participant may elect within 30 days after marriage an actuarially equivalent spousal survivor annuity at 50% or 100% determined with reference to the otherwise payable normal benefit for the participant's life only.
 
The plan year is a calendar year.
 
 
Subject to 2.1-2, 2.1-3, 2.1-6 and 11 below, the basic supplemental benefit on normal retirement with 20 Years of Benefit Service (YBS) shall be a monthly pension for life equal to 60 percent of Final Average Pay (FAP) minus the Retirement Plan Benefit (RPB) and the Primary Social Security Benefit (PSSB).
2.1-1
For a participant who is married at the time retirement benefit payments start, the benefit shall include a survivor annuity for the participant's spouse under which, after the participant's death, ongoing benefits shall be paid to the participant's surviving
2.1-2
 
spouse for life at a monthly rate equal to half the monthly rate paid to the participant. The married participant's normal retirement benefit shall not be reduced to provide for this survivor annuity. As provided in 3.2-2, a married participant may elect to have the surviving spouse's survivor annuity increased to provide for continuation of benefits in full after the participant's death, in which case the participant's normal retirement benefit shall be reduced on an actuarially equivalent basis to provide for the increase in the survivor annuity amount. The survivor annuity, if applicable, shall only be payable to the spouse to whom the participant is married on the benefit starting date. Actuarial equivalency shall be determined based on the assumptions applicable to determining comparable annuity benefits under the Precision Castparts Corp. Retirement Plan (Retirement Plan). Before a participant's death, a spouse has no enforceable right under this provision. After a surviving spouse starts benefits under this provision, the cash-out provisions in 3.2-6 and 6.2 shall apply.
The basic supplemental benefit for any participant who is a Five Percent Shareholder of the Company shall be half the amount otherwise provided under 2.1-1 and related provisions. If a participant stops being a Five Percent Shareholder, the foregoing restriction shall not apply to additional benefits for Benefit Service after the Five Percent Shareholder status ends. A participant shall be considered a "Five Percent Shareholder" if:
2.1-3
(a) The person owns, directly or indirectly, securities of the Company representing 5 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, and
(b) The person has owned securities meeting the requirements of (a) for 20 or more years while an employee of the Company.
For a participant with less than 20 Years of Benefit Service at normal retirement, the 60 percent factor in 2.1-1 shall be reduced by 1/20th for each year less than 20. The benefit for each Year of Benefit Service over 20 shall be one-half of 1 percent (.5 percent) of Final Average Pay, minus any portion of the Retirement Plan Benefit and Primary Social Security Benefit that exceeds the basic benefit under 2.1-1 for the first 20 Years of Benefit Service. The benefit for a partial year at the end of a participant's period of service shall be prorated based on the number of months in which the participant performs services during the year.
2.1-4
The basic supplemental benefit can be expressed as follows:
2.1-5
 
                    
PLUS
 
                    
MINUS
 
 
If a participant has a period of Benefit Service transferred to this Plan from the SERPLevel Two Prior Plan, an election under 3.2-2 of SERP - Level Two Prior Plan shall continue to apply to the transferred benefit obligations as provided in this Plan.
2.1-6
 
"Final Average Pay" means the participant's average monthly compensation in the highest three calendar years of Compensation out of five consecutive calendar years of employment during a period of Eligibility Service by the Company or an Affiliate. Years separated by a period of one or more calendar years when the participant has no such employment shall be treated as consecutive. Additional compensation paid at retirement or other termination of employment, such as for periods of unused vacation or sick leave, shall be attributed to calendar years by assuming that employment continued during the period based on which the Compensation is measured. Severance pay shall be disregarded, except severance pay in lieu of service.
2.2-1
"Compensation" shall be determined as follows:
2.2-2
(a) Total direct pay reportable on Form W-2 under Code section 3401(a), disregarding limitations based on the nature or location of employment, shall be counted, subject to the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
(b) Total direct pay shall be determined without reduction by elective deferral of otherwise currently taxable compensation under any qualified cash or deferred arrangement under Code section 401(k), any elective welfare benefit arrangement under Code section 125 or a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
(c) During periods of reduced Compensation because of such causes as illness, disability or leave of absence, compensation shall be figured at the last regular rate before the start of the period.
 
"Primary Social Security Benefit" means the primary insurance amount estimated for the participant on retirement at or after age 65 under the federal Social Security Act, determined as follows:
2.2-3
(a) The amount may be estimated from the regular pay rate under rules established by the Administrator assuming a standard pay progression over a full working career.
(b) The amount shall not be changed by amendments to the Social Security Act or cost-of-living index adjustments after the participant's actual termination date or age 65, whichever is first.
(c) If a participant retires early, the Primary Social Security Benefit shall be the amount that would be received at age 65 assuming level earnings at the participant's final rate of pay and no change in the Social Security Act.
"Retirement Plan Benefit" means the sum of the following amounts:
2.2-4
(a) The monthly benefit (excluding any Prior Profit Sharing Plan Benefit) under the Retirement Plan for the participant upon normal retirement at age 65 in the form determined under 2.2-5.
(b) The monthly benefit for the participant under any defined benefit pension plan other than the Retirement Plan from service counted for benefits under this Plan, as well as any service following removal from participation, and disregarding any benefit derived from rollovers to such plan derived from a source other than employer contributions relating to the period of service counted for benefits under this Plan. The benefit shall be expressed as a normal retirement benefit at age 65 in the form determined under 2.2-5 using the actuarial equivalency factors applicable under that plan. If benefits are provided for a participant under the foregoing sentences with respect to more than one plan, all such benefits shall be combined.
(c) The monthly benefit for the participant under a defined contribution retirement plan relating to service counted for benefits under this Plan, as well as any service following removal from participation, and disregarding any benefit derived from employee pre-tax or employee after-tax contributions to such plan or rollovers to such plan derived from a source other than employer contributions relating to the period of service counted for benefits under this Plan. The amount of the benefit shall be based on each employer contribution for the participant with respect to the relevant period of service, with the contributions carried forward at an interest rate of 8 percent. The actual rate of return in the plan and any interim distributions or withdrawals shall be disregarded. The resulting benefit shall be expressed as a normal retirement benefit at age 65 in the form determined under 2.2-5 using the actuarial equivalency factors applicable to the Retirement Plan for determining equivalent benefits other than a lump sum. If benefits are provided for a participant under
 
the foregoing sentences with respect to more than one plan, all such benefits shall be combined. If the defined contribution plan is a plan under which employer contributions are made to match, wholly or partly, employee pre-tax or after-tax contributions under the plan, then the offset for the defined contribution plan shall be calculated assuming the employee's account has been credited with the maximum matching contributions the employee could have had credited by making employee contributions (without regard to any operational limitations imposed by discrimination testing), carried forward at an interest rate of 8 percent.
In determining the Retirement Plan Benefit under 2.2-4, the monthly benefit shall be calculated based on the following form of benefit:
2.2-5
(a) For a participant who is married when benefit payments start under this Plan, in a contingent annuity with half payments continued to the spouse.
(b) For a participant who is unmarried when benefit payments start under this Plan, in a straight life annuity.
"Normal Retirement" means retirement under the Retirement Plan at or after age 65 with 10 Years of Eligibility Service.
2.2-6
Subject to the 409A Supplement, "Year of Benefit Service" means a period of 12 months based on the anniversary of the date the employee first performs an hour of service as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate. No service for a business before the date it becomes an Affiliate shall be counted as Benefit Service. Except for periods of disability as described below, periods of employment other than as a regular full-time employee shall be disregarded and service credit shall be reduced accordingly. If a person becomes totally and permanently disabled while a participant accruing Benefit Service and qualifies for disability income payments under Social Security, the participant shall continue to accrue Years of Benefit Service during disability up to age 65 or earlier retirement if:
2.2-7
(a) The disability was directly related to and arose from the participant's employment, or
(b) The participant had 10 Years of Eligibility Service before the disability occurred.
"Years of Eligibility Service" means Years of Benefit Service as defined in 2.2-7 plus Years of Service (as defined in the Retirement Plan), if any, approved by the Committee and performed before 2005 for a business before the date the business became an Affiliate.
2.2-8
 
An early retirement supplemental benefit shall be payable for a participant who terminates employment before normal retirement but after age 55 with at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service. The benefit shall be the normal retirement basic
2.3-1
 
supplemental benefit, as adjusted under 2.1-4, if applicable, and reduced as described in 2.3-2 by 6 percent for each year by which the early retirement date precedes the date the participant would have first qualified for normal retirement as defined in 2.2-6. The reduction for partial years shall be prorated monthly, based on calendar months with a partial month at the beginning or end of the period disregarded if the affected portion of the month is less than 15 days.
The early retirement reduction described in 2.3-1 shall be applied after calculating a participant's benefit as for normal retirement, based on service and compensation to actual retirement, as follows:
2.3-2
 
                    
PLUS
(.5% of FAP) (YBS over 20) - (RPB + PSSB)
                    
TIMES
 
No benefit shall be paid with respect to a participant whose employment terminates before early retirement except under 4.
2.3-3
A participant may not elect to defer the start of early retirement benefits.
2.3-4
 
No benefit (other than a surviving spouse's death benefit under 4, if applicable) shall be payable with respect to a participant who terminates employment, regardless of cause, before qualifying for a normal retirement benefit, an early retirement benefit or an accelerated vested benefit, or to any participant whose employment is terminated for Misconduct during employment. Moreover, no normal or early retirement benefit or spouse's death benefit shall be payable with respect to any participant who, after termination, engages in Competition with the Company or an Affiliate, as determined by the Committee in accordance with 2.4-3.
2.4-1
"Misconduct during employment" means:
2.4-2
(a) Committing a fraudulent or otherwise dishonest act related to employment;
(b) Making an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to the Company or any Affiliate if the information was obtained during employment; or
(c) Engaging in competition while employed.
 
"Competition" means doing either of the following within three years after termination of employment:
2.4-3
(a) Making an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to the Company or any Affiliate if the information was obtained during employment; or
(b) Engaging as an employee, partner, proprietor or otherwise, in a business in competition with the Company or any Affiliate in the manufacture or sale of investment castings or any other business conducted by the Company or an Affiliate at any time during the participant's period of employment. No forfeiture or absence of a forfeiture shall constitute a waiver of or bar any other remedy that may be available to the Company or an Affiliate under applicable law on account of the Misconduct or Competition.
 
If a participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate continues past age 65, Years of Benefit Service shall continue to accrue and Final Average Pay shall be adjusted to actual retirement. The benefit shall be based on the regular formula for normal retirement, and no actuarial adjustment shall be made for starting benefits after age 65.
 
"Disability" means a condition that makes a person eligible for disability income payments under Social Security for total, permanent disability.
2.6-1
A participant who terminates covered employment on account of disability shall continue to accrue Eligibility Service and Benefit Service while disabled until retirement or earlier recovery from disability if either of the following applies:
2.6-2
(a) The disability was directly related to the participant's employment.
(b) The participant had at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service before the disability occurred.
A disabled participant shall be retired at normal retirement date and may retire at early retirement date if eligible. Benefits shall be determined on the basis of Benefit Years, Final Average Pay (calculated as if pay rate was frozen at the date of disability), Primary Social Security Benefit and Retirement Plan Benefit at retirement.
2.6-3
 
 
Benefits shall start with the month that begins after termination of employment, in the case of normal, deferred, accelerated vested or early retirement benefits, and with the month that begins after the participant's death in the case of a spouse's death benefit under 4. The benefit starting date shall be as of the first day of the first month for which benefits are paid under this provision. Benefit payments shall be made by the end of the month to which they apply in accordance with the Company's regular payroll processing schedule.
 
For a participant who is unmarried at the benefit starting date, the normal form for payment of benefits shall be a monthly annuity for the life of the participant. For a participant who is married at the benefit starting date, the normal form of benefit shall include a survivor annuity for the participant's spouse as provided in 2.1-2.
3.2-1
A married participant may elect under 3.2-4 to receive a reduced monthly benefit for life in order to have payments continued to the participant's surviving spouse in full (rather than at one-half as provided in 2.1-2).
3.2-2
The reduction under 3.2-2 in the participant's monthly benefit shall be the actuarial equivalent of the increase selected for the spouse's survivor benefit. Actuarial equivalency shall be determined with reference to the otherwise payable normal benefit and shall be based on the assumptions applicable to determining comparable benefits under the Retirement Plan.
3.2-3
Subject to 3.2-6, a benefit election under 3.2-2 may be made upon enrollment in this Plan or within 30 days following the marriage of a participant that occurs before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1 or at any other time that is more than 12 months before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1. The election shall be by written notice mailed or delivered to the Administrator. An election under 3.2-2 shall no longer be effective if the participant and spouse do not stay married throughout the period from the election date to the benefit starting date or if the participant revokes the election at least 12 months before the benefit starting date or elects to receive a lump-sum payment under 3.2-6(a), (b) or (c), if applicable.
3.2-4
A participant may elect to receive benefits in the form of an actuarially equivalent lump sum, as follows:
3.2-5
(a) The election to receive benefits in a lump sum may be made in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator. Except as provided in (b) and (c) below, the election must be delivered to the Administrator at least 12 months before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1. If a participant makes a lump-sum election designed to qualify under this clause but has a benefit starting date before 12 months have passed, that election shall be void, but the participant may elect a reduced lump sum by submitting an election under (b) or (c) below.
(b) A reduced lump-sum payment of an entire benefit may be irrevocably elected during the 12-month period before the benefit starting date. The reduced lump-sum payment amount shall be calculated as provided in 3.2-6, and then reduced by 10 percent.
 
(c) Subject to 6.4, a reduced lump-sum payment of the remaining portion of a benefit in pay status may be irrevocably elected by a participant or surviving spouse any time after the benefit starting date, except as provided below. The payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the election is received by the Administrator. The reduced lump-sum payment amount shall be calculated as provided in 3.2-6, and then reduced by 10 percent. If a participant starts benefits when married, a later election to receive a lump-sum benefit may not apply to the spouse's contingent survivorship benefit if made after the participant and spouse have divorced unless authorized by the divorce decree or other court order. If such a divorce has occurred and a participant elects to receive a reduced lump-sum benefit under this provision without such authorization, the reduced lump-sum benefit shall be calculated with reference only to monthly amounts otherwise payable to the participant and shall not affect the spouse's contingent survivorship benefit.
(d) A lump-sum election shall apply to the participant's entire benefit, regardless of whether the service to which the participant's benefit relates is performed before or after the election is made. Partial lump-sum payment elections shall not be allowed except as provided in (c) above.
(e) A lump-sum election under (a) above may not be revoked, but it may be replaced by a spousal annuity election after a later marriage as described in (f) below. If that happens, but the spousal annuity election becomes void under 3.2-4 because the marriage ends before the benefit starting date under 3.1, the applicable benefit form shall automatically change to the normal form for payment of benefits under 3.2-1 and the participant shall have a new opportunity to make a lump-sum election if the 12-month lead time requirement under (a) above is met.
(f) A participant who has made a lump-sum election under (a) above and then becomes married may elect to change the applicable benefit form to an actuarially equivalent contingent annuity with payment continued to the participant's spouse in full as described in 3.2-2 or at one-half as described in 2.1-2. An election under this clause may not be made later than 12 months before the benefit starting date.
(g) A participant's election to receive a lump-sum payment under (a), (b) or (c) above shall constitute an irrevocable agreement by the participant to return the amount received if the electing participant engages in Competition under 2.5-3 within three years after termination of employment or the date of the election if later. The amount to be returned shall be the full amount distributed plus interest at 7 percent per annum minus the monthly amounts that would have been paid to the participant in the normal benefit form up to the date the Competition began.
 
If a lump-sum payment election under 3.2-5 applies to a participant's benefit, the following shall apply:
3.2-6
(a) Subject to (b) below and 3.2-5(c), the amount of the lump-sum payment shall be based on the basic supplemental benefit on normal retirement under 2.1 using Final Average Pay and Years of Benefit Service and other pertinent benefit formula factors as of the benefit starting date under 3.1. For a benefit starting date before normal retirement, the 6 percent adjustment factor in 2.3 shall apply. The resulting monthly retirement benefit shall then be converted to an actuarially equivalent present value including the interest rate and mortality assumptions specified in 6.1.
(b) For a participant who is married on the benefit starting date, the amount of the lump-sum payment shall include the Company-paid survivor annuity at 50 percent under 2.1-2. If a participant is unmarried on the benefit starting date, in determining the lump-sum payment no value will be attributed to the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-2 even if the participant had been married for some of the time while the lump sum election is in effect.
(c) A lump-sum payment shall constitute complete satisfaction of the benefit obligation under the Plan to the participant, and the Plan's postretirement death benefit provisions shall not apply. However, the payback obligation under 3.2-5(g) above shall remain in effect.
(d) If participant dies before starting to receive benefits with a lump-sum payment election in effect and a surviving spouse qualifies for preretirement death benefits under 4.1-3, the surviving spouse benefit shall be the actuarially equivalent value of the remaining portion of the benefit calculated under 4.1-3(b), payable in a lump sum. If the participant is unmarried on the date of death, there is no preretirement death benefit and 4.1-3 shall not apply. The actuarial equivalency shall be determined in a manner consistent with (a) above.
 
Subject to 2.5, if a participant dies after starting to receive benefits, or dies after retiring under 2.2-6 or 2.3-1 but before starting benefits under 3.1, a death benefit shall be paid only as provided under the spouse's survivor benefit form. A spouse's post-retirement death benefit shall only be paid to the spouse to whom the participant was married on the participant's benefit starting date, even if the participant is married to another spouse on the date of death.
4.1-1
Except as provided in 4.1-3, if a participant dies before starting to receive benefits or qualifying under 4.1-1, no benefit shall be paid. The surviving spouse benefits under this Plan shall only be payable if the participant and spouse are legally married on the date of death.
4.1-2
 
Subject to 1.2-2(e), 3.2-7(d) and 4.1-2, the surviving spouse of a participant who dies while employed in covered employment after accruing 10 Years of Eligibility Service, or whose death while so employed is directly related to the participant's employment, shall receive a death benefit as follows:
4.1-3
(a) The benefit shall be a monthly payment for the surviving spouse's life, starting on the first day of the month after the participant's death.
(b) Subject to (c), the benefit shall be one-half of the amount determined as though the participant had retired on the date of death with benefits payable to the surviving spouse under the survivor annuity in 2.1-2. In determining the amount of the benefit, the participant's actual Years of Benefit Service, Final Average Pay and Primary Social Security Benefit shall be used. The Retirement Plan Benefit described in 2.2-4(a) will include the actuarial value of any subsidy provided to actual pre-retirement death benefits that commence prior to age 55. Early retirement adjustment factors as described in Section 2.3-2 shall apply. On death before age 55, the participant shall be assumed to be age 55 in determining the early retirement adjustment factor.
(c) If a participant elected under 3.2-2 to have payments continued to the surviving spouse in full, then the amount under (b) shall be determined using that benefit form.
 
Benefits shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. The Company may, but shall not be required to, set aside funds in advance for payment of benefits under this Plan. Even if funds are set aside, that shall not cause this to be a funded employee benefit plan. Participants' rights under this Plan shall be only as general creditors of the Company.
 
 
Subject to 6.4, the Board of Directors of the Company may amend or terminate this Plan on the first day of any month by notice to the participants but may not revoke any participant's benefit under this Plan (a) without adequate compensation or (b) after the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company. If the Board of Directors decides to revoke benefits for some or all participants, the benefits of all affected participants shall be revoked in exchange for adequate compensation, and such participants shall have no right to defer receipt of such compensation. No cash-out value shall be attributed to any spousal survivor benefit for a participant who has not already retired and commenced benefits or to the cash-out benefit payment option for any participant regardless of retirement status. Subject to 6.2, the value of an unvested benefit shall be zero. "Adequate compensation" shall be determined based on the actuarially equivalent present value of the accrued straight life normal retirement (age 65) benefit as of the Plan termination date, using the following mortality and interest rate assumptions:
(a) The mortality table shall be the RP2000 Healthy Annuitant mortality tables (100 percent male for retirees and 100 percent female for spouses) projected to 2010 by scale AA.
(b) The interest rate for each year shall be determined by using the 24-month average of the Moody's Long-Term Corporate Bond Yield composite index, ending with the November of the preceding year, less 110 basis points. Each year's interest rate shall remain in effect for distributions that occur at any time during the year.
 
In the event of a total termination, all affected participants shall receive adequate compensation as described in 6.1 above.
 
The chief executive officer of the Company may amend this Plan to make technical, editorial or operational changes on advice of counsel to comply with applicable law or to simplify or clarify the Plan. The Committee is also authorized to adopt changes under this provision, and shall be the only authorized party to adopt such a change if it affects the benefit of the chief executive officer without having the same effect on substantially all other similarly situated participants. The chief executive officer and the Committee may each delegate amendment authority under this provision to one or more executive officers of the Company, except that no officer to whom authority is delegated may adopt a change if it affects the benefit of that officer without having the same effect on substantially all other similarly situated participants. For example, if applicable tax laws, regulations, revenue rulings or revenue procedures would require a participant to report taxable income due to a benefit under this Plan before the benefit is payable to the participant, the Plan may be amended under this provision to prevent such premature taxation. The Company, the Committee, the chief executive officer and their employees, officers, agents and others acting on their behalf shall not have any liability to any Plan participant or beneficiary with respect to such premature taxation, regardless of whether or not an amendment has been made under this provision.
 
This Plan may not be amended after 2004 to improve any benefit for any participant or for a surviving spouse of any participant.
 
This Plan shall not be a contract of employment between the Company or an Affiliate and any participant. No participant may object to termination of this Plan. This Plan shall not prevent the Company or an Affiliate from discharging any participant from employment at any time.
 
 
Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under this Plan or requesting information under this Plan shall present the request to the Administrator who shall respond in writing as soon as practicable. Verbal claims must be confirmed in writing by the claimant within a reasonable time. If no written confirmation is received within two weeks of a verbal claim, the Administrator may state the claim in writing communicated to the claimant and then proceed on that basis.
 
If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial shall state:
(a) The reasons for the denial, with specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the denial is based;
(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation of why it is necessary; and
(c) An explanation of this Plan's claim review procedure.
 
Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has not received a response within 30 days may request review by notice in writing to the Administrator, who shall inform the Committee. The original decision shall be reviewed by the Committee, which may, but shall not be required to, grant the claimant a hearing. On review, whether or not there is a hearing, the claimant may have representation, examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.
 
The decision on review shall ordinarily be made within 60 days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing or other special circumstance, the claimant shall be so notified and the time shall be 120 days. The decision shall be expressed in writing and shall state the reasons and the relevant Plan provisions. All decisions on review shall be final and bind all parties concerned.
 
If suit or action is instituted to enforce any rights under this Plan, the prevailing party may recover from the other party reasonable attorneys' fees at trial and on any appeal.
9.1-1
Any notice under this Plan shall be in writing and shall be effective when actually delivered or, if mailed, when deposited as registered or certified mail directed to the Company at the address stated in the Statement of Participation or to such other address as either party may specify by notice to the other party. Unless otherwise designated, notices to the Committee or the Administrator shall be sent to the address specified for the Company.
9.1-2
The rights of a participant under this agreement are personal. Except for amounts owing to or claimed by the Company or an Affiliate and except for the limited provisions of 3.2 above, no interest of a participant or spouse or representative of a participant may be directly or indirectly transferred, encumbered, seized by legal process or in any other way subjected to the claims of any creditor.
9.1-3
 
Following termination of employment, a participant shall not be an employee of the Company or an Affiliate for any purpose, and payments under 3 shall not constitute salary or wages. A participant shall receive such payments as retirement benefits, not as compensation for performance of any substantial services.
9.1-4
Except as provided in 9.1-3 above, this Plan shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the parties, their successors and assigns. If the Company or an Affiliate merges, consolidates or otherwise reorganizes, or its business or assets are acquired by another company, this Plan shall be binding on the successor company and shall apply to any employment of participants by the successor company.
9.1-5
This Plan shall be construed according to the laws of Oregon, except as preempted by federal law.
9.1-6
The Company may withhold from payments to a participant or surviving spouse any income tax or other amounts as required by law.
9.1-7
 
For purposes of this Plan, a "Change in Control of the Company" shall be deemed to have occurred if:
(a) Any "person," as such term is used in sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) (other than the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or any company owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20 percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
(b) During any period of two consecutive years (not including any period prior to the effective date of this Plan), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board), and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (a), (c) or (d) of this section) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds 2/3 of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority thereof;
 
(c) The stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other company, other than (1) a merger or consolidation that would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (2) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as defined above) acquires more than 20 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(d) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
 
The restatement of the Prior Plans (this Restatement) shall be effective immediately upon the close of the 2004 plan year, December 31, 2004. This Restatement is designed to preserve all benefits vested and accrued as of December 31, 2004 as 409A-exempt benefits, and to provide for ongoing accruals for post-2004 covered employment by eligible participants on all relevant terms that apply to pre-2005 accruals except to the extent those terms and the related accruals must be restricted to avoid violating applicable requirements of 409A. The 409A Supplement accompanying this Restatement is designed to provide for the post-2004 accruals in compliance with 409A requirements.
 
 
This Supplement relates to the Plan document (the Main Plan Document) for the Frozen Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (the Plan) as described in section 11 of the Main Plan Document.
Ongoing accrual of benefits under the Plan for post-2004 covered employment by eligible participants (Post-2004 Accruals) occurs only as described in this Supplement.
All Post-2004 Accruals are subject to restrictions necessary to comply with requirements of Internal Revenue Code section 409A (409A) and applicable regulations (409A Requirements), incorporated herein by this reference.
Except as restricted by this Supplement to achieve compliance with 409A Requirements, Post-2004 Accruals occur on the same terms, and with the same benefit rights, options and features, as accruals for covered employment before 2005 by eligible participants (Pre-2005 Accruals). Pre-2005 Accruals are exempt from 409A Requirements as grandfathered benefits to the extent permitted by 409A and applicable regulations. Pre-2005 Accruals for a participant who has Post-2004 Accruals shall be determined as though the participant terminated employment on December 31, 2004, with the resulting benefit adjusted actuarially to reflect the later benefit starting date upon actual retirement in accordance with applicable 409A Requirements.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the "Company"), adopted the Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (the "Program") effective February 1, 1989 to provide supplemental retirement benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees ("Executives") as an incentive for them to develop careers with the Company and to perform with a degree of excellence that will promote the best interests of the Company. The Program has had two components: the "SERP - Level One Plan" and the "SERP - Level Two Plan."
The Company has restated the SERP - Level One Plan and the SERP-Level Two Plan to provide for all then-covered participants' December 31, 2004 vested accrued benefits and to provide for ongoing accruals (if applicable) without changing plan terms except as required by changes in applicable law for such then-covered participants continuing in covered employment after that date.
This Plan is adopted in connection with the changes described above in order to provide for accruals for qualifying Executives in Plan-covered employment under the SERP-Level One Plan on December 31, 2004 who were not vested under that plan on that date and have ongoing employment after that date and for other designated Executives, and to conform with changes in applicable law (including requirements of Internal Revenue Code ("Code") section 409A ("409A") and related guidance.
 
. Participation shall be limited to a select group of designated Executives of the Company and of its U. S. Affiliates. "Affiliate" means a corporation or other business that is more than 50 percent owned by the Company.
1.1 Eligible Employees
1.2 Selection of Participants
Initially, participants in this Plan shall be those Executives who were in covered employment on December 31, 2004 under the SERP - Level One Plan but did not have vested benefits under that plan on that date and for Executives who have been designated for participation after that date. Other Executives may be designated for participation in this Plan by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the
1.2-1
Company. The chief executive officer of the Company may recommend additional participants for approval by the Committee. An Executive may be selected for participation at any time. The Committee may also remove a participant from this Plan on a prospective basis, with or without cause. The Committee-appointed administrator for this Plan (the Administrator) shall notify the participant in writing within 30 days after Committee action establishing the removal. The effective date of removal shall be the date of adoption of the Committee action.
Subject to 1.4, following any removal under 1.2-1, the following shall apply:
1.2-2
(a) The removal, in itself, shall not cause an immediate forfeiture of benefits.
(b) No further Years of Benefit Service shall be counted following the date of removal.
(c) The amount described in 2.1-5(a) shall not change after removal, but the amounts described in 2.1-5(b) may change due to further accruals or other increases in the Retirement Plan Benefit and Primary Social Security Benefit.
(d) A removed participant who continues to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate shall not earn additional credit for Years of Eligibility Service needed to qualify for retirement under Section 2 unless additional credit is authorized by the Committee.
(e) The preretirement spousal death benefit, if applicable under 4.3, shall end 30 days after notice of removal is given under 1.2-1.
(f) If the participant is married at removal and remains married until the benefit start date, the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-3, as well as any election under 3.3-2 to increase the survivor annuity from 50 percent to 100 percent, shall continue to apply. If the participant is married at removal and is unmarried or married to a different spouse at the benefit start date, the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-3 shall not apply. If the participant is unmarried at removal but becomes married before the benefit start date, the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-3 shall not apply, but the participant may elect within 30 days after marriage, subject to the Subsequent Lump Sum Election rules under 3.4, an actuarially equivalent spousal survivor annuity at 50 percent or 100 percent determined with reference to the otherwise payable normal benefit for the participant's life only.
"Acquisition" means an asset or stock purchase by the Company or an Affiliate of an unaffiliated business. Preacquisition service, pay, or both may be credited under this Plan as follows:
1.2-3
Credit for Preacquisition Service and Pay.
(a) Credit may be granted by the Committee in the process of enrollment of Executives.
 
(b) After enrollment, credit may be granted by the Company's chief executive officer, except that credit for the chief executive officer may be granted only by the Committee.
(c) The terms on which credit is granted shall be stated in writing and communicated to the affected Executive.
Enrollment shall be as follows:
1.3
Enrollment.
(a) Upon initial eligibility, each participant shall be notified of the terms of this Plan and given a "Statement of Participation" signed by the Company.
(b) The Executive shall enroll for participation by completing the Statement of Participation, including all relevant benefit elections as to the form of payment, signing it and returning it to the Administrator.
(c) Except as provided in 1.4(b), an Executive may only file one Statement of Participation.
(d) The Statement of Participation shall be provided to the Executive with information about benefits as soon as reasonably practicable after the Committee authorizes the Administrator to enroll the Executive for participation. The Executive is not eligible to become a participant until the Executive has received the Statement of Participation, and the Executive shall not become a Participant until the Executive returns a completed, signed Statement of Participation to the Administrator.
(e) The completed, signed Statement of Participation must be returned by the Executive to the Administrator as soon as reasonably practicable after the date the Executive receives the Statement of Participation from the Administrator. The lump sum benefit payment method under 3.3 may only be selected in a Statement of Participation if the signed Statement of Participation is returned by the Executive to the Administrator within 30 days after receipt from the Administrator.
The Statement of Participation must specify the participant's election as to the form of payment from the forms of benefit available under 3.3. Such election will be irrevocable except as follows:
1.4
Election.
(a) A Subsequent Lump Sum Election may be filed as provided in 3.4.
(b) One replacement Statement of Participation may be filed by an Executive not later than December 31, 2007 (or such other time as may be permitted under Internal Revenue Service transition relief relating to Code section 409A), but the replacement Statement of Participation may not cause any amounts to become payable in the calendar year during which the replacement Statement of Participation is filed or change the time or form of payment of any amounts otherwise payable in the calendar year during which the replacement Statement of Participation is filed.
 
(c) A change from one form of annuity payment to another form of annuity payment may be made as provided in 3.3-2. Such a change shall be made as provide in 3.3-4 and related provisions.
 
2.1 Benefit on Retirement at or After Normal Retirement Date
Subject to 2.1-3 and 2.1-4, the basic supplemental benefit on normal retirement with 20 Years of Benefit Service at or after Normal Retirement Date shall be a monthly pension for life equal to 60 percent of Final Average Pay, minus the participant's Retirement Plan Benefit and the participant's Primary Social Security Benefit. The percentage adjustment on normal retirement with more than or less than 20 Years of Benefit Service is provided in 2.1-5. The benefit starting date is addressed in 3.1 and related provisions and the form of payment is addressed in 3.3 and related provisions. Normal Retirement Date means the date the participant both has at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service and is at least age 65.
2.1-1
Unless the participant elects a lump sum on enrollment, or pursuant to a valid Subsequent Lump Sum Election or a valid replacement Statement of Participation, the participant's benefit will be paid in the form of an annuity as provided in 3.3.
2.1-2
For a participant who is married at the time retirement benefit payments start, the benefit shall include a survivor annuity for the participant's spouse under which after the participant's death, ongoing benefits shall be paid to the participant's surviving spouse for life at a monthly rate equal to half the monthly rate paid to the participant. The married participant's retirement benefit shall not be reduced to provide for this survivor annuity. As provided in 3.3-2, a married participant may elect to have the surviving spouse's survivor annuity increased to provide for continuation of benefits in full after the participant's death, in which case the participant's retirement benefit shall be reduced on an actuarially equivalent basis to provide for the increase in the survivor annuity amount. The survivor annuity, if applicable, shall only be payable to the spouse to whom the participant is married on the benefit starting date. Actuarial equivalency shall be determined based on the assumptions applicable to determining comparable annuity benefits under the PCC Retirement Plan (defined in 2.2-4(b)). Before a participant's death, a spouse has no enforceable right under this provision.
2.1-3
The benefit for a partial year at the end of a participant's period of service shall be prorated based on the number of months in which the participant performs services during the year.
2.1-4
For a participant with less than 20 Years of Benefit Service at normal retirement, the 60 percent factor in 2.1-1 shall be reduced by 1/20
2.1-5
th
for each year less than 20. The benefit for each Year of Benefit Service over 20 shall be one-half of one percent (.5 percent) of Final Average Pay, minus any portion of the Retirement Plan Benefit and Primary Social Security Benefit that exceeds the basic benefit under 2.1-1 for the first 20 Years of Benefit Service. The basic supplemental benefit can be expressed as follows:
(a) Sixty percent (60%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service up to 20, divided by 20)
 
(b) One-half of one percent (.5%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service over 20)
(c) (Retirement Plan Benefit plus Primary Social Security Benefit).
2.2 Definitions
"Final Average Pay" means the participant's average monthly compensation in the highest three calendar years of compensation out of five consecutive calendar years of employment during a period of eligibility service by the Company or an Affiliate. Years separated by a period of one or more calendar years when the participant has no such eligible employment shall be treated as consecutive. Additional compensation paid at retirement or other Separation from Service, such as for periods of unused vacation or sick leave, shall be attributed to calendar years by assuming that employment continued during the period based on which the compensation is measured. Severance pay shall be disregarded, except severance pay in lieu of service.
2.2-1
"Compensation" shall be determined as follows:
2.2-2
(a) Total direct pay reportable on Form W-2 under Code section 3401(a), disregarding limitations based on the nature or location of employment, shall be counted, subject to the following provisions:
(1) Bonuses shall be included in full.
(2) Commissions and cost-of-living allowances shall be excluded.
(3) Any reimbursements or other expense allowances, fringe benefits, moving expenses, severance or disability pay and other deferred compensation (other than as specified in (b)), and welfare benefits shall be excluded.
(4) Gains realized from the exercise of nonqualified stock options shall be excluded.
 
(b) Total direct pay shall be determined without reduction by elective deferral of otherwise currently taxable compensation under any qualified cash or deferred arrangement under Code section 401(k), any elective welfare benefit arrangement under Code section 125 or a non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
(c) During periods of ongoing Plan-covered employment (or imputed Years of Benefit Service during disability, under 2.2-7 and 2.2-8) with reduced compensation because of such causes as illness, disability or leave of absence, compensation shall be imputed at the last regular rate before the start of the period. In determining "regular rate" for a period of absence that spans a bonus period so that the Executive does not receive a bonus that the Executive would have received if the Executive had not been absent, the average of the Executive's bonuses in the three years immediately before the absence started shall be used to include bonuses in the imputed pay period.
"Primary Social Security Benefit" means the primary insurance amount estimated for the participant on retirement at or after age 65 under the federal Social Security Act, determined as follows:
2.2-3
(a) The amount may be estimated from the regular pay rate under rules established by the Administrator assuming a standard pay progression over a full working career.
(b) The amount shall not be changed by amendments to the Social Security Act or cost-of-living index adjustments after the participant's actual Separation from Service date or age 65, whichever is first.
(c) If a participant retires before age 65, the Primary Social Security Benefit shall be the amount that would be received at age 65 assuming level earnings at the participant's final rate of pay and no change in the Social Security Act.
"Retirement Plan Benefit" means the sum of all amounts payable as an age 65 retirement benefit (as applicable) for the participant under all defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans maintained by the Company or by an Affiliate, determined in accordance with the following provisions:
2.2-4
(a) Subject to (c), the monthly benefit for the participant under any defined benefit pension plan from service counted for benefits under this Plan as well as any service following removal from participation, and disregarding any benefit derived from rollovers to such plan derived from a source other than employer contributions relating to the period of service counted for benefits under this Plan. The benefit shall be expressed as a retirement benefit at age 65 in the form determined under 2.2-5 using the actuarial equivalency factors applicable under that plan.
 
(b) Subject to (c), the monthly benefit for the participant under a defined contribution retirement plan relating to service counted for benefits under this Plan as well as any service following removal from participation. The amount of the benefit shall be based on contributions to the participant's account, carried forward at an interest rate of 8 percent to age 65 or later retirement date, disregarding any amounts derived from employee after-tax or pre-tax contributions or rollovers into the plan by the participant of amounts derived from contributions other than employer contributions for a period of service counted under this Plan. The value of contributions and imputed interest shall be converted to an actuarially equivalent retirement benefit starting at age 65 in the form determined under 2.2-5 using the actuarial equivalency factors applicable to the Precision Castparts Corp. Retirement Plan (the "PCC Retirement Plan"). If the defined contribution plan is a plan under which employer contributions are made to match, wholly or partly, employee after-tax or pre-tax contributions under the plan, then the offset for the defined contribution plan shall be calculated assuming the employee's account has been credited, for the period of service covered by this Plan, with the maximum matching contributions the employee could have had credited by making employee contributions (without regard to any operational limitations imposed by discrimination testing), carried forward at an interest rate of 8 percent.
(c) For purposes of (a) and (b), the Prior Profit Sharing Plan benefit under the PCC Retirement Plan, if applicable, shall be treated as a defined contribution retirement plan benefit, and the rest of the benefit under the PCC Retirement Plan shall be treated as a defined benefit pension plan benefit. The same treatment shall apply to defined contribution-type features qualified under Code section 414(k) with respect to any other relevant defined benefit pension plans.
In determining the Retirement Plan Benefit under 2.2-4, the monthly benefit shall be calculated based on the following form of benefit:
2.2-5
(a) For a participant who is married when benefit payments start under this Plan, in a contingent annuity with half payments continued to the spouse.
(b) For a participant who is unmarried when benefit payments start under this Plan, in a straight life annuity.
Transfer of employment from one Company/Affiliate employer to another Company/Affiliate employer is not retirement.
2.2-6
Subject to 1.2, "Year of Benefit Service" means a period of 12 months based on the anniversary of the date the employee first performs an hour of service as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate. No service for a business before the date it becomes an Affiliate shall be counted as Benefit Service except as provided in 1.2-3. Except for periods of disability as described below, periods of employment other than as a regular full-time
2.2-7
 
employee eligible for active participation in this Plan under 1.1-1 shall be disregarded and service credit shall be reduced accordingly. If a person becomes totally and permanently disabled while in Plan-covered employment for benefit accrual purposes, and has at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service at the outset of qualifying disability, the participant will continue to accrue Years of Benefit Service during disability up to the date the participant reaches age 65 or retires and starts benefits if earlier.
"Disability" means a condition that makes a person eligible for disability income benefits under Social Security for total, permanent disability.
2.2-8
"Years of Eligibility Service" means Years of Benefit Service as defined in 2.2-7 plus Years of Service (as defined in the PCC Retirement Plan), if any, approved by the Committee performed for a business before the date it became an Affiliate or performed for the Company or an Affiliate after the person has been removed from participation as provided in 1.2-1 and related provisions.
2.2-9
2.3 Retirement Benefit Starting Before Normal Retirement Date
An early retirement supplemental benefit shall be payable for a participant who has a Separation from Service before normal retirement but after qualifying for early retirement. The benefit shall be the normal retirement basic supplemental benefit, as adjusted under 2.1-4 and 2.1-5 if applicable, and reduced as described in 2.3-2. The benefit starting date is addressed in 3.1 and related provisions and the form of payment is addressed in 3.3 and related provisions. Early Retirement Date means a date that is before the participant's Normal Retirement Date and on or after the later of the date the participant has earned at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service and the total of the participant's Years of Eligibility Service when combined with the participant's age equals at least 70. Only whole years of age and Eligibility Service are counted in determining when the total reaches 70. Fractional years of age cannot be combined with fractional years of Eligibility Service to reach 70.
2.3-1
The reduction referred to in 2.3-1 is 3 percent (3%) for each year by which the Early Retirement Date precedes age 65. The reduction for partial years shall be prorated monthly. The early retirement reduction shall be applied after calculating the participant's benefit as for normal retirement, including service and compensation to actual retirement.
2.3-2
The benefit provided for in 2.3-1, with the reduction provided for in 2.3-2, is described as the product of (a) and (b), with (a) and (b) as follows:
2.3-3
(a) The amount that is
(1) Sixty percent (60%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service up to 20, divided by 20)
(2) One-half of one percent (.5%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service over 20)
 
(3) (Retirement Plan Benefit plus Primary Social Security Benefit).
(b) The fraction that is
(1-.03 (65 minus age at actual retirement))
Except as provided under Section 6.2 or Section 4, no benefit shall be paid with respect to a participant who has a Separation from Service before the participant's first available Early Retirement Date. A participant's benefit becomes vested when the requirements of this provision are met, and is unvested before that date.
2.3-4
If a participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate continues past the participant's Normal Retirement Date, Years of Benefit Service shall continue to accrue and Final Average Pay shall be calculated including reference to Compensation up to the participant's actual retirement date. The benefit shall be based on the regular formula for retirement under 2.1 and related provisions, and no actuarial adjustment shall be made for starting benefits after Normal Retirement Date.
2.4
Retirement after Normal Retirement Date.
2.5 Timing of Accrual; When Accrued Benefits are Not Payable
Benefits become accrued for a participant only after the participant qualifies for a normal retirement benefit under 2.1-1 or for an early retirement benefit under 2.3-1 or for an accelerated vested benefit under 6.2, and not before. No benefit (regardless of whether accrued) shall be payable to any participant whose employment is terminated for misconduct during employment. No benefit (regardless of whether benefit payments have begun) shall be payable with respect to any participant who, after Separation from Service, engages in competition with the Company or an Affiliate, as determined by the Committee in accordance with 2.5-3. A participant who engages in Competition within three years after Separation from Service or within three years after the date of receiving a lump sum payment if later must repay to the Company any already-received benefit as provided in 3.3-6(f).
2.5-1
"Misconduct during employment" means:
2.5-2
(a) Committing a fraudulent or otherwise dishonest act related to employment;
(b) Making an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to the Company or Affiliate if the information was obtained during employment; or
(c) Engaging in Competition while employed.
 
"Competition" means doing either of the following during employment or within three years after a Separation from Service:
2.5-3
(a) Making an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to the Company or any Affiliate if the information was obtained during employment; or
(b) Engaging either as an employee, partner, proprietor or otherwise, in a business in competition with the Company or any Affiliate in the manufacture or sale of investment castings or any other business conducted by the Company or an Affiliate at any time during the participant's period of employment. No forfeiture or absence of a forfeiture shall constitute a waiver of or bar any other remedy that may be available to the Company or an Affiliate under applicable law on account of the misconduct or competition.
 
Except as provided in 3.2-2, 3.4-2(c) and 6.2, benefits shall start as of the first day of the month after Separation from Service under 3.2-1. This Plan does not provide for any election to delay the start of benefits beyond the otherwise applicable benefit starting date, except under 3.4-2(c). In the case of a spouse's death benefit under 4.1 through 4.3, benefits shall start with the month that begins after the participant's death. Benefit payments shall be made by the end of the month to which they apply in accordance with the Company's regular payroll processing schedule.
3.1
Start of Benefits.
3.2 Separation from Service
"Separation from Service" shall occur upon termination of all the Executive's employment with the controlled group of corporations or commonly controlled trades or businesses, as defined in Code section 414(b) and (c), of which the Company is a member. The Executive shall not be regarded as having a Separation from Service if:
3.2-1
(a) The Executive is on leave from the employer for up to six months or for longer with reemployment rights protected by statute or contract; or
(b) The Executive provides services to the employer in a capacity other than as an employee at a rate of 50 percent or more of the level before termination and for remuneration at an annual rate of 50 percent or more of the Executive's average rate of remuneration as an employee in the last three years of employment or all years if fewer than three.
If the Executive is a Specified Employee and the Company has publicly traded stock, the Executive's benefit shall not be paid to the Executive upon a Separation from Service until six months following the separation date. All amounts due during such six months shall be paid as soon as practicable after the six months have expired. "Specified Employee" means a "key employee" as defined in Code section 416(i), determined without regard to Code section 416(i)(5). The definition of key employee shall be applied by identifying the highest paid 50 employees of the Company and Affiliates that are in a controlled group relationship under Code section 414(b) or (c) during the preceding calendar year.
3.2-2
 
3.3 Form of Benefit
For a participant who is unmarried at the benefit starting date, the normal form for payment of benefits shall be a monthly annuity for the life of the participant, unless the participant elects a lump sum in his or her Statement of Participation. For a participant who is married at the benefit starting date, the normal form of benefit shall include a survivor annuity for the participant's spouse as provided in 2.1-3.
3.3-1
A married participant may elect under 3.3-4 to receive a reduced monthly benefit for life in order to have payments continued to the participant's surviving spouse in full (rather than at one-half as provided in 2.1-3).
3.3-2
The reduction under 3.3-2 in the participant's monthly benefit shall be the actuarial equivalent of the increase selected for the spouse's survivor benefit. Actuarial equivalency shall be determined with reference to the otherwise payable normal benefit and shall be based on the assumptions applicable to determining comparable benefits under the PCC Retirement Plan.
3.3-3
Subject to 3.4, a benefit election under 3.3-2 may be made upon enrollment in this Plan or within 30 days following the marriage of a participant that occurs before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1 or at any other time that is more than 12 months before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1. The election shall be by written notice mailed or delivered to the Administrator. An election under 3.3-2 shall no longer be effective if the participant and spouse do not stay married throughout the period from the election date to the benefit starting date or if the participant makes a Subsequent Lump Sum Election under 3.4.
3.3-4
A participant may elect to receive benefits in the form of an actuarially equivalent lump sum, as follows:
3.3-5
(a) Selecting lump sum as the form of benefits designated in the participant's Statement of Participation; or
(b) Making a qualifying Subsequent Lump Sum Election under 3.4.
If a lump-sum payment election under 3.3-5 or 3.4-1 applies to a participant's benefit, the following shall apply:
3.3-6
(a) Subject to (b), the amount of the lump-sum payment shall be based on the basic supplemental benefit on retirement under 2.1 or 2.3 as applicable, using Final Average Pay and Years of Benefit Service and other pertinent benefit formula factors as of the benefit starting date under 3.1. For a benefit starting date before the participant's Normal Retirement Date, the 3 percent adjustment factor in 2.3 shall apply to the extent provided in 2.3-2. The resulting monthly retirement benefit shall then be converted to an actuarially equivalent present value using the interest rate and mortality table assumptions specified in 6.2.
 
(b) For a participant who is married on the benefit starting date, the amount of the lump-sum payment shall include the Company-paid survivor annuity at 50 percent under 2.1-3. If a participant is unmarried on the benefit starting date, in determining the lump-sum payment no value will be attributed to the Company-paid survivor annuity under 2.1-3 even if the participant had been married for some of the time while the lump-sum election is in effect.
(c) A lump-sum payment shall constitute complete satisfaction of the benefit obligation under this Plan to the participant, and this Plan's postretirement death benefit provisions shall not apply. However, the payback obligation under (f) shall remain in effect.
(d) If participant dies before starting to receive benefits with a lump-sum payment election in effect and a surviving spouse qualifies for preretirement death benefits under 4.3, the surviving spouse benefit shall be the actuarially equivalent value of the remaining portion of the benefit calculated under 4.3(b), payable in a lump sum. If the participant is unmarried on the date of death, there is no preretirement death benefit and 4.3 shall not apply. The actuarial equivalency shall be determined in a manner consistent with (a).
(e) A lump-sum election shall apply to the participant's entire benefit, regardless of whether the service to which the participant's benefit relates is performed before or after the election is made. Partial lump-sum payment elections shall not be allowed.
(f) A participant's election to receive a lump-sum payment shall constitute an irrevocable agreement by the participant to return the amount received if the electing participant engages in Competition under 2.5-3 within three years after termination of employment or within three years after receipt of the lump sum distribution if later. The amount to be returned shall be the full amount distributed plus interest at 7 percent per annum minus the monthly amounts that would have been paid to the participant in the normal benefit form up to the date the Competition began.
3.4 Subsequent Lump Sum Election
After enrollment, a participant may elect once to change the form of payment of benefits to or from a lump sum payment by filing a Subsequent Lump Sum Election, subject to 3.4-2.
3.4-1
 
The following requirements apply to Subsequent Lump Sum Elections under 3.4-1:
3.4-2
(a) The Subsequent Lump Sum Election must be in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator, and must be consistent with one of the forms of benefit provided in 3.3.
(b) The Subsequent Lump Sum Election must be delivered to the Administrator not less than 12 months before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1 (as determined without regard to a five-year delay under (c)).
(c) The benefit starting date for the participant will be delayed five years from the date the benefit would have been paid if the change had not been made. During the five year delay, there will not be any pre-retirement death benefit payable. The early retirement reduction under 2.3-3 will be applied as of the delayed starting date. Any delay beyond age 65 will be actuarially adjusted to reflect the delay using actuarial assumptions applicable to determining comparable benefits under the PCC Retirement Plan.
 
Subject to 3.4, if a participant dies after starting to receive benefits or dies after retiring under 2.1, 2.3 or 2.4 but before starting benefits under 3.1, a death benefit shall be paid only as elected by the participant under 1.3, 1.4 and 3.3, as applicable, or as provided under the automatic spouse's survivor benefit form under 2.1-3 if applicable. A spouse's post-retirement death benefit shall only be paid to the spouse to whom the participant was married on the participant's benefit starting date, even if the participant is married to another spouse on the date of death.
4.1
Except as provided in 4.3, if a participant dies before starting to receive benefits or qualifying under 4.1, no death benefit shall be paid. The surviving spouse benefits under 4.3 shall only be payable if the participant and spouse are legally married on the date of death.
4.2
Subject to 1.2-2(e), 3.3-6(d) and 4.2, the surviving spouse of a participant who dies while employed in employment qualifying the participant to earn additional Years of Benefit Service and after the participant has earned at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service, or whose death while so employed is directly related to the participant's employment, shall receive a death benefit as follows:
4.3
(a) The benefit shall be a monthly payment for the surviving spouse's life, starting on the first day of the month after the participant's death.
(b) Subject to (c), the amount of the spouse's monthly benefit shall be the amount determined under the 50 percent contingent annuity form described in 2.1-3. In determining the amount of the benefit, the participant's actual Years of Benefit Service, Final Average Pay and relevant offsets shall be used. On death of a participant before age 65, the reduction under 2.3 shall apply. On death of a participant before early retirement age, the benefit reduction will be calculated with reference to the participant's earliest available retirement age (determined by imputing advancing age and service after death).
 
(c) If a participant election under 3.3-2 to have payments continued to the surviving spouse in full is in effect, then the amount under (b) shall be determined using that benefit form.
 
Benefits shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. The Company may, but shall not be required to, set aside funds in advance for payment of benefits under this Plan. Even if funds are set aside, that shall not cause this to be a funded employee benefit plan. Participants' rights under this Plan shall be only as general creditors of the Company.
 
Subject to 6.3, the Board of Directors of the Company may amend or terminate this Plan on the first day of any month by notice to the participants subject to the restrictions in Code section 409A but may not revoke any participant's benefit that has a value, determined in accordance with 6.2, as of the revocation date. No value shall be attributed to any spousal survivor benefit for a participant who has not already retired and commenced benefits or to the cash-out payment option for any participant regardless of retirement status. Absent acceleration of vesting under 6.2, the value of an unvested benefit is zero. No benefit accrues for a participant before the participant meets the age and service requirements for vesting under 2.3-4.
6.1
Regular Procedure.
If there is a Change in Control, there will be a total Plan termination effective on the date of the Change in Control and all participants will be fully vested immediately. A change in ownership of an Affiliate of the Company that does not occur as part of a Change in Control under Section 10 will not trigger this 6.2. Vested accrued benefits will be immediately paid as an accelerated vested benefit. The benefit shall be a lump-sum payment as of the first day of the month after the Change in Control. The amount shall be the actuarially determined present value of the participant's basic supplemental benefit on retirement, including Final Average Pay and Years of Benefit Service as of the date of the Change in Control, using the following mortality and interest rate assumptions:
6.2
Change in Control.
(a) The mortality table shall be the RP2000 Healthy Annuitant mortality tables (100 percent male for retirees and 100 percent female for spouses) projected to 2010 by scale AA.
(b) The interest rate for each year shall be determined by using the 24-month average of the Moody's Long-Term Corporate Bond Yield composite index, ending with the November of the preceding year, less 110 basis points. Each year's interest rate shall remain in effect for distributions that occur at any time during the year.
 
No cash-out value shall be attributed to any spousal survivor benefit for a participant. If a participant qualifies for payment of a benefit under this provision, but dies before payment of the benefit, the benefit shall be paid to the participant's surviving spouse if the participant is married on the date of death, or to the participant's estate if the participant is not married on the date of death.
The chief executive officer of the Company may amend this Plan to make technical, editorial or operational changes on advice of counsel to comply with applicable law or to simplify or clarify this Plan. The Committee is also authorized to adopt changes under this provision, and shall be the only authorized party to adopt such a change if it affects the benefit of the chief executive officer without having the same effect on substantially all other similarly situated participants. The chief executive officer and the Committee may each delegate amendment authority under this provision to one or more executive officers of the Company, except that no officer to whom authority is delegated may adopt a change if it affects the benefit of that officer without having the same effect on substantially all other similarly situated participants. For example, if applicable tax laws, regulations, revenue rulings or revenue procedures would require a participant to report taxable income due to a benefit under this Plan before the benefit is payable to the participant, this Plan may be amended under this provision to prevent such premature taxation. The Company, the Committee, the chief executive officer and their employees, officers, agents and others acting on their behalf shall not have any liability to any Plan participant or beneficiary with respect to such premature taxation, regardless of whether or not an amendment has been made under this provision.
6.3
Technical, Editorial or Operational Changes.
Notwithstanding any restriction in this Plan, the Company may amend this Plan from time to time to comply with Code section 409A or with other legal requirements that would cause material adverse consequences to participants if violated.
6.4
 
This Plan shall not be a contract of employment between the Company or an Affiliate and any participant. No participant may object to termination of this Plan under Section 6. This Plan shall not prevent the Company or an Affiliate from discharging any participant from employment at any time.
 
Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under this Plan, or requesting information under this Plan shall present the request to the Administrator, who shall respond in writing as soon as practicable. Oral claims must be confirmed in writing by the claimant within a reasonable time. If no written confirmation is received within two weeks of an oral claim, the Administrator may state the claim in writing communicated to the claimant and then proceed on that basis.
8.1
Filing Procedure.
 
If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial shall state:
8.2
Notice of Denial.
(a) The reasons for the denial, with specific reference to Plan provisions on which the denial is based;
(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation of why it is necessary; and
(c) An explanation of this Plan's claim review procedure.
Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has not received a response within 30 days may request review by notice in writing to the Administrator, who shall inform the Committee. The original decision shall be reviewed by the Committee, which may, but shall not be required to, grant the claimant a hearing. On review, whether or not there is a hearing, the claimant may have representation, examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.
8.3
Review Procedure.
The decision on review shall ordinarily be made within 60 days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing or other special circumstance, the claimant shall be so notified and the time shall be 120 days. The decision shall be expressed in writing and shall state the reasons and the relevant Plan provisions. All decisions on review shall be final and bind all parties concerned.
8.4
Decision on Review.
 
If suit or action is instituted to enforce any rights under this Plan, the prevailing party may recover from the other party reasonable attorneys' fees at trial and on any appeal.
9.1
Any notice under this Plan shall be in writing and shall be effective when actually delivered or, if mailed, when deposited as registered or certified mail directed to the Company at the address stated in the Statement of Participation or to such other address as either party may specify by notice to the other party. Unless otherwise designated, notices to the Committee or the Administrator shall be sent to the address specified for the Company.
9.2
The rights of a participant under this Plan are personal. Except for amounts owing to or claimed by the Company or an Affiliate and except for the limited provisions of 3.3, no interest of a participant or spouse or representative of a participant may be directly or indirectly transferred, encumbered, seized by legal process or in any other way subjected to the claims of any creditor.
9.3
Following termination of employment, a participant shall not be an employee of the Company or an Affiliate for any purpose and payments under Section 3 shall not constitute salary or wages. A participant shall receive such payments as retirement benefits, not as compensation for performance of any substantial services.
9.4
 
Except as provided in 9.3, this Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties, their successors and assigns. If the Company or an Affiliate merges, consolidates or otherwise reorganizes, or its assets or business are acquired by another company, this Plan shall be binding upon the successor company and shall apply to any employment of participants by the successor company.
9.5
This Plan shall be construed according to the laws of Oregon except as preempted by federal law.
9.6
The Company may withhold from payments to a participant or surviving spouse any income tax or other amounts as required by law.
9.7
 
For purposes of determining whether a Change in Control has occurred, the following definitions shall apply:
"Change in Control" means a change in ownership of the Company under Section 10.2, a change in effective control of the Company under 10.3 or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets under 10.4.
10.1
A change in ownership occurs on the date that any one person or more than one person acting as a group acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock already held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of the Company's stock.
10.2
A change in ownership will not be deemed to occur if, before the person or group acquires additional Company stock, the person or group acquiring Company stock owned, or is treated as owning, more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of Company stock.
10.2-1
An increase in the ownership percentage of the person or group as a result of a transaction in which the Company redeems its stock for cash or other property will be treated as an acquisition by the person or group.
10.2-2
Ownership of stock will be determined by applying the rules in Code section 318(a) and by treating stock underlying a vested option as owned by the individual who holds the vested option, unless the stock to which the option applies is not substantially vested as defined in Treasury Regulation section 1.83-3(b) and (j).
10.2-3
Persons will be considered as acting as a group to acquire or hold Company stock or effective control of the Company to the extent provided by applicable regulations or other written guidance published by the Internal Revenue Service.
10.2-4
A change in effective control of the Company shall occur, regardless whether a change in ownership occurs under 10.2, on the date that an event described in 10.3-1 or 10.3-2 occurs, subject to 10.3-3.
10.3
 
A change in effective control occurs on the date that any one person or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period that ends on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) ownership of Company stock possessing more than 35 percent of the total voting power of the Company's stock.
10.3-1
A change in effective control also occurs on the date that a majority of the Company's board of directors is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose election is not endorsed by a majority of the Company's board members prior to the date of election or appointment.
10.3-2
A change in effective control will not result from the acquisition of additional control of the Company by any person or group that, immediately before such acquisition, owned more than 35 percent of the total voting power of the Company's stock.
10.3-3
A change in ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets occurs on the date that any person or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) Company assets with a total gross fair market value equal to 40 percent or more of the total gross fair market value of all of the Company's assets immediately prior to the acquisition (or series of acquisitions).
10.4
Gross fair market value for this purpose means the value of the Company's assets or the value of the assets being disposed of, without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
10.4-1
No Change in Control occurs solely because the Company transfers assets to an entity controlled by the Company's shareholders immediately after the transfer.
10.4-2
No change in ownership of the Company's assets is deemed to occur solely by reason of a transfer of the Company's assets to any of the following:
10.4-3
(a) A shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for the Company's stock.
(b) An entity, half or more of whose total value or voting power is owned by the Company (directly or indirectly).
(c) A person or group that owns (directly or indirectly) 50 percent or more of the value or voting power of all of the Company's outstanding shares.
(d) An entity, half or more of whose total value or voting power is owned (directly or indirectly) by a person who owns 50 percent or more of the value or voting power of the Company's outstanding shares.
 
This 2005 Restatement shall be effective January 1, 2005. Procedures for changes from provisions of the SERP - Level One Plan shall be implemented according to a schedule established by the Administrator.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
Draft December 8, 2006
 
 
 
 
Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the "Company"), adopted the Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (the "Program") effective February 1, 1989 to provide supplemental retirement benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees ("Executives") as an incentive for them to develop careers with the Company and to perform with a degree of excellence that will promote the best interests of the Company. The Program has had two components: the "SERP - Level One Plan" and the "SERP - Level Two Plan."
The Company has restated the SERP - Level One Plan and the SERP - Level Two Plan to provide for all then-covered participants' December 31, 2004 vested accrued benefits and to provide for ongoing accruals (if applicable) without changing plan terms except as required by changes in applicable law for such then-covered participants continuing in covered employment after that date.
This Plan is adopted in connection with the changes described above in order to provide for accruals for qualifying Executives in Plan-covered employment under the SERP - Level Two Plan on December 31, 2004 who were not vested under that plan on that date and have ongoing employment after that date and for other designated Executives, and to conform with changes in applicable law (including requirements of Internal Revenue Code ("Code") section 409A ("409A") and related guidance).
 
Participation shall be limited to a select group of designated Executives of the Company and of its U.S. Affiliates. "Affiliate" means a corporation or other business that is more than 50 percent owned by the Company.
1.1
Eligible Employees.
1.2 Selection of Participants
Initially, participants in this Plan shall be those Executives who were in covered employment on December 31, 2004 under the SERP - Level Two Plan but did not have vested benefits under that plan on that date and for Executives who have been designated for participation after that date. Other Executives may be designated for participation in this Plan by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the
1.2-1
Company. The chief executive officer of the Company may recommend additional participants for approval by the Committee. An Executive may be selected for participation at any time. The Committee may also remove a participant from this Plan on a prospective basis, with or without cause. The Committee-appointed administrator for this Plan (the Administrator) shall notify the participant in writing within 30 days after Committee action establishing the removal. The effective date of removal shall be the date of adoption of the Committee action.
Subject to 1.4, following any removal under 1.2-1, the following shall apply:
1.2-2
(a) The removal, in itself, shall not cause an immediate forfeiture of benefits.
(b) No further Years of Benefit Service shall be counted following the date of removal.
(c) The amount described in 2.1-4(a) shall not change after removal, but the amounts described in 2.1-6(c) may change due to further accruals or other increases in the Retirement Plan Benefit and Primary Social Security Benefit.
(d) A removed participant who continues to be employed by the Company or an Affiliate shall not earn additional credit for Years of Eligibility Service needed to qualify for retirement under Section 2 unless additional credit is authorized by the Committee.
(e) The preretirement spousal death benefit, if applicable under 4.3, shall end 30 days after notice of removal is given under 1.2-1.
(f) If the participant is married at removal, any election under 3.3-2 to provide a spousal contingent annuity at 50 percent or 100 percent shall continue to apply. If the participant is unmarried at removal but becomes married prior to the benefit start date, the participant may make an election under 3.3-2 within 30 days after marriage.
"Acquisition" means an asset or stock purchase by the Company or an Affiliate of an unaffiliated business. Preacquisition service, pay, or both may be credited under this Plan as follows:
1.2-3
Credit for Preacquisition Service and Pay.
(a) Credit may be granted by the Committee in the process of enrollment of Executives.
(b) After enrollment, credit may be granted by the Company's chief executive officer, except that credit for the chief executive officer may be granted only by the Committee.
(c) The terms on which credit is granted shall be stated in writing and communicated to the affected Executive.
 
Enrollment shall be as follows:
1.3
Enrollment.
(a) Upon initial eligibility, each participant shall be notified of the terms of this Plan and given a "Statement of Participation" signed by the Company.
(b) The Executive shall enroll for participation by completing the Statement of Participation, including all relevant benefit elections as to the form of payment, signing it and returning it to the Administrator.
(c) Except as provided in 1.4(b), an Executive may only file one Statement of Participation.
(d) The Statement of Participation shall be provided to the Executive with information about benefits as soon as reasonably practicable after the Committee authorizes the Administrator to enroll the Executive for participation. The Executive is not eligible to become a participant until the Executive has received the Statement of Participation, and the Executive shall not become a Participant until the Executive returns a completed, signed Statement of Participation to the Administrator.
(e) The completed, signed Statement of Participation must be returned by the Executive to the Administrator as soon as reasonably practicable after the date the Executive receives the Statement of Participation from the Administrator. The lump sum benefit payment method under 3.3 may only be selected in a Statement of Participation if the signed Statement of Participation is returned by the Executive to the Administrator within 30 days after receipt from the Administrator.
The Statement of Participation must specify the participant's election as to the form of payment from the forms of benefit available under 3.3. Such election will be irrevocable except as follows:
1.4
Election.
(a) A Subsequent Lump Sum Election may be filed as provided in 3.4.
(b) One replacement Statement of Participation may be filed by an Executive not later than December 31, 2007 (or such other time as may be permitted under Internal Revenue Service transition relief relating to Code section 409A), but the replacement Statement of Participation may not cause any amounts to become payable in the calendar year during which the replacement Statement of Participation is filed or change the time or form of payment of any amounts otherwise payable in the calendar year during which the replacement Statement of Participation is filed.
 
2.1 Benefit on Retirement at or After Normal Retirement Date
Subject to 2.1-2 and 2.1-3, the basic supplemental benefit on normal retirement with 25 Years of Benefit Service at or after Normal Retirement Date shall be a monthly pension for life equal to 55 percent of Final Average Pay, minus the participant's Retirement Plan Benefit and the participant's Primary Social Security Benefit. The percentage adjustment on normal retirement with more than or less than 25 Years of Benefit Service is provided in 2.1-4. The benefit starting date for an eligible participant is the first day of the month after the participant's retirement. The benefit starting date is addressed in 3.1 and related provisions and the form of payment is addressed in 3.3 and related provisions. "Normal Retirement Date" means the date the participant both has at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service and is at least age 65.
2.1-1
Unless the participant elects a lump sum on enrollment, or pursuant to a valid Subsequent Lump Sum Election or a valid replacement Statement of Participation, the participant's benefit will be paid in the form of an annuity as provided in 3.3.
2.1-2
The benefit for a partial year at the end of a participant's period of service shall be prorated based on the number of months in which the participant performs services during the year.
2.1-3
For a participant with less than 25 Years of Benefit Service at normal retirement, the 55 percent factor in 2.1-1 shall be reduced by 1/25th for each year less than 25. The benefit for each Year of Benefit Service over 25 shall be one-half of one percent (.5 percent) of Final Average Pay, minus any portion of the Retirement Plan Benefit and Primary Social Security Benefit that exceeds the basic benefit under 2.1-1 for the first 25 Years of Benefit Service. The basic supplemental benefit can be expressed as follows:
2.1-4
(a) Fifty-five percent (55%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service up to 25, divided by 25)
(b) One-half of one percent (.5%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service over 25)
(c) (Retirement Plan Benefit plus Primary Social Security Benefit).
 
"Final Average Pay" means the participant's average monthly compensation in the highest three calendar years of compensation out of five consecutive calendar years of employment during a period of eligibility service by the Company or an Affiliate. Years separated by a period of one or more calendar years when the participant has no such eligible employment shall be treated as consecutive. Additional compensation paid at retirement or other Separation from Service, such as for periods of unused vacation or sick leave, shall be attributed to calendar years by assuming that employment continued during the period based on which the compensation is measured. Severance pay shall be disregarded, except severance pay in lieu of service.
2.2-1
"Compensation" shall be determined as follows:
2.2-2
(a) Total direct pay reportable on Form W-2 under Code section 3401(a), disregarding limitations based on the nature or location of employment, shall be counted, subject to the following provisions:
(1) Half of any bonuses shall be excluded.
(2) Commissions and cost-of-living allowances shall be excluded.
(3) Any reimbursements or other expense allowances, fringe benefits, moving expenses, severance or disability pay and other deferred compensation (other than as specified in (b)), and welfare benefits shall be excluded.
(4) Gains realized from the exercise of nonqualified stock options shall be excluded.
(b) Total direct pay shall be determined without reduction by elective deferral of otherwise currently taxable compensation under any qualified cash or deferred arrangement under Code section 401(k), any elective welfare benefit arrangement under Code section 125 or a non-qualified deferred compensation plan.
(c) During periods of ongoing Plan-covered employment (or imputed Years of Benefit Service during disability, under 2.2-6 and 2.2-7) with reduced compensation because of such causes as illness, disability or leave of absence, compensation shall be imputed at the last regular rate before the start of the period. In determining "regular rate" for a period of absence that spans a bonus period so that the Executive does not receive a bonus that the Executive would have received if the Executive had not been absent, the average of the Executive's bonuses in the three years immediately before the absence started shall be used to include bonuses in the imputed pay period.
"Primary Social Security Benefit" means the primary insurance amount estimated for the participant on retirement at or after age 65 under the federal Social Security Act, determined as follows:
2.2-3
(a) The amount may be estimated from the regular pay rate under rules established by the Administrator assuming a standard pay progression over a full working career.
 
(b) The amount shall not be changed by amendments to the Social Security Act or cost-of-living index adjustments after the participant's actual Separation from Service date or age 65, whichever is first.
(c) If a participant retires before age 65, the Primary Social Security Benefit shall be the amount that would be received at age 65 assuming level earnings at the participant's final rate of pay and no change in the Social Security Act.
"Retirement Plan Benefit" means the sum of all amounts payable as an age 65 retirement benefit (as applicable) for the participant under all defined benefit and defined contribution retirement plans maintained by the Company or by an Affiliate, determined in accordance with the following provisions:
2.2-4
(a) Subject to (c), the monthly benefit for the participant under any defined benefit pension plan from service counted for benefits under this Plan as well as any service following removal from participation, and disregarding any benefit derived from rollovers to such plan derived from a source other than employer contributions relating to the period of service counted for benefits under this Plan. The benefit shall be expressed as a retirement benefit at age 65 (or actual retirement if later) in the form of a straight life annuity using the actuarial equivalency factors applicable under that plan.
(b) Subject to (c), the monthly benefit for the participant under a defined contribution retirement plan relating to service counted for benefits under this Plan as well as any service following removal from participation. The amount of the benefit shall be based on contributions to the participant's account, carried forward at an interest rate of 8 percent to age 65 or later, disregarding any amounts derived from employee after-tax or pre-tax contributions or rollovers into the plan by the participant of amounts derived from contributions other than employer contributions for a period of service counted under this Plan. The value of contributions and imputed interest shall be converted to an actuarially equivalent retirement benefit starting at age 65 in the form of a straight life annuity using the actuarial equivalency factors applicable to the Precision Castparts Corp. Retirement Plan (the "PCC Retirement Plan"). If the defined contribution plan is a plan under which employer contributions are made to match, wholly or partly, employee after-tax or pre-tax contributions under the plan, then the offset for the defined contribution plan shall be calculated assuming the employee's account has been credited, for the period of service covered by this Plan, with the maximum matching contributions the employee could have had credited by making employee contributions (without regard to any operational limitations imposed by discrimination testing), carried forward at an interest rate of 8 percent.
 
(c) For purposes of (a) and (b), the Prior Profit Sharing Plan benefit under the PCC Retirement Plan, if applicable, shall be treated as a defined contribution retirement plan benefit, and the rest of the benefit under the PCC Retirement Plan shall be treated as a defined benefit pension plan benefit. The same treatment shall apply to defined contribution-type features qualified under Code section 414(k) with respect to any other relevant defined benefit pension plans.
Transfer of employment from one Company or Affiliate employer to another Company or Affiliate employer is not retirement.
2.2-5
Subject to 1.2, "Year of Benefit Service" means a period of 12 months based on the anniversary of the date the employee first performs an hour of service as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate. No service for a business before the date it becomes an Affiliate shall be counted as Benefit Service except as provided in 1.2-3. Except for periods of disability as described below, periods of employment other than as a regular full-time employee eligible for active participation in this Plan under 1.1 shall be disregarded and service credit shall be reduced accordingly. If a person becomes totally and permanently disabled while in Plan-covered employment for benefit accrual purposes, and has at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service at the outset of qualifying disability, the participant will continue to accrue Years of Benefit Service during disability up to the date the participant reaches age 65 or retires and starts benefits if earlier.
2.2-6
"Disability" means a condition that makes a person eligible for disability income benefits under Social Security for total, permanent disability.
2.2-7
"Years of Eligibility Service" means Years of Benefit Service as defined in 2.2-6 plus Years of Service (as defined in the PCC Retirement Plan), if any, approved by the Committee performed for a business before the date it became an Affiliate or performed for the Company or an Affiliate after the person has been removed from participation as provided in 1.2-1 and related provisions.
2.2-8
2.3 Retirement Benefit Starting Before Normal Retirement Date
An early retirement supplemental benefit shall be payable for a participant who has a Separation from Service before normal retirement but after qualifying for early retirement. The benefit shall be the normal retirement basic supplemental benefit, as adjusted under 2.1-3 and 2.1-4, if applicable, and reduced as described in 2.3-2. The benefit starting date for an eligible participant is the first day of the month after the participant's retirement on an Early Retirement Date. "Early Retirement Date" means a date that is before the participant's Normal Retirement Date and on or after the later of the date the participant has earned at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service, and the total of the participant's Years of Eligibility Service when combined with the participant's age equals at least 70. Only whole years of age and Years of Eligibility Service are counted in determining when the total reaches 70. Fractional years of age cannot be combined with fractional Years of Eligibility Service to reach 70.
2.3-1
 
The reduction referred to in 2.3-1 is 3 percent for each year by which the Early Retirement Date precedes age 65. The reduction for partial years shall be prorated monthly. The early retirement reduction shall be applied after calculating the participant's benefit as for normal retirement, based on service and compensation to actual retirement and offsets as of age 65.
2.3-2
The benefit provided for in 2.3-1, with the reduction provided for in 2.3-2, is described as the product of (a) multiplied by (b), with (a) and (b) as follows:
2.3-3
(a) The amount that is
(1) Fifty-five percent (55%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service up to 25, divided by 25)
(2) One-half of one percent (.5%) of Final Average Pay times (Years of Benefit Service over 25)
(3) (Retirement Plan Benefit plus Primary Social Security Benefit)
(b) The fraction that is
(1-.03 (age at normal retirement minus age at actual retirement)).
Except as provided under Section 6.2 or Section 4, no benefit shall be paid with respect to a participant who has a Separation from Service before the participant's first available Early Retirement Date. A participant's benefit becomes vested when the requirements of this provision are met, and is unvested before that date.
2.3-4
If a participant's employment with the Company or an Affiliate continues past the participant's Normal Retirement Date, Years of Benefit Service shall continue to accrue and Final Average Pay shall be calculated including reference to Compensation up to the participant's actual retirement date. The benefit shall be based on the regular formula for retirement under 2.1 and related provisions, and no actuarial adjustment shall be made for starting benefits after Normal Retirement Date.
2.4
Retirement After Normal Retirement Date.
 
2.5 Timing of Accrual; When Accrued Benefits Are Not Payable
Benefits become accrued for a participant only after the participant qualifies for a normal retirement benefit under 2.1-1 or for an early retirement benefit under 2.3-1 or for an accelerated vested benefit under 6.2, and not before. No benefit (regardless of whether accrued) shall be payable to any participant whose employment is terminated for misconduct during employment. No benefit (regardless of whether benefit payments have begun) shall be payable with respect to any participant who, after Separation from Service, engages in competition with the Company or an Affiliate, as determined by the Committee in accordance with 2.5-3. A participant who engages in Competition within three years after Separation from Service or within three years after the date of receiving a lump sum payment if later must repay to the Company any already-received benefit as provided in 3.3-5(e).
2.5-1
"Misconduct during employment" means:
2.5-2
(a) Committing a fraudulent or otherwise dishonest act related to employment;
(b) Making an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to the Company or any Affiliate if the information was obtained during employment; or
(c) Engaging in Competition while employed.
"Competition" means doing either of the following during employment or within three years after a Separation from Service:
2.5-3
(a) Making an unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to the Company or any Affiliate if the information was obtained during employment; or
(b) Engaging either as an employee, partner, proprietor or otherwise in a business in competition with the Company or any Affiliate in the manufacture or sale of investment castings or any other business conducted by the Company or an Affiliate at any time during the participant's period of employment. No forfeiture or absence of a forfeiture shall constitute a waiver of or bar any other remedy that may be available to the Company or an Affiliate under applicable law on account of the misconduct or competition.
 
Except as provided in 2, 3.4-2(c) and 6.2, benefits shall start as of the first day of the month after Separation from Service under 3.2-1. This Plan does not provide for any election to delay the start of benefits beyond the otherwise applicable benefit starting date, except under 3.4-2(c). In the case of a spouse's death benefit under 4.1 through 4.3, benefits shall start with the month that begins after the participant's death. Benefit payments shall be made by the end of the month to which they apply in accordance with the Company's regular payroll processing schedule.
3.1
Start of Benefits.
 
3.2 Separation from Service
"Separation from Service" shall occur upon termination of all the Executive's employment with the controlled group of corporations or commonly controlled trades or businesses, as defined in Code section 414(b) and (c), of which the Company is a member. The Executive shall not be regarded as having a Separation from Service if:
3.2-1
(a) The Executive is on leave from the employer for up to six months or for longer with reemployment rights protected by statute or contract; or
(b) The Executive provides services to the employer in a capacity other than as an employee at a rate of 50 percent or more of the level before termination and for remuneration at an annual rate of 50 percent or more of the Executive's average rate of remuneration as an employee in the last three years of employment or all years if fewer than three.
If the Executive is a Specified Employee and the Company has publicly traded stock, the Executive's benefit shall not be paid to the Executive upon a Separation from Service until six months following the separation date. All amounts due during such six months shall be paid as soon as practicable after the six months have expired. "Specified Employee" means a "key employee" as defined in Code section 416(i), determined without regard to Code section 416(i)(5). The definition of key employee shall be applied by identifying the highest-paid 50 employees of the Company and Affiliates that are in a controlled group relationship under Code section 414(b) or (c) during the preceding calendar year.
3.2-2
3.3 Form of Benefit
The normal form for payment of benefits shall be a monthly annuity for the life of the participant.
3.3-1
A married participant may elect under 3.3-4 to receive benefits in the form of an actuarially equivalent contingent annuity with payment continued to the participant's spouse in full or at one-half. Actuarial equivalency shall be determined with reference to the otherwise payable normal benefit and shall be based on the assumptions applicable to determining comparable benefits under the PCC Retirement Plan.
3.3-2
Subject to 3.4, a benefit election under 3.3-2 may be made upon enrollment in this Plan or within 30 days following the marriage of a participant that occurs before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1 or at any other time that is more than 12 months before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1. The election shall be by written notice mailed or delivered to the Administrator. An election under 3.3-2 shall no longer be effective if the participant and spouse do not stay married throughout the period from the election date to the benefit starting date or if the participant makes a Subsequent Lump Sum Election under 3.4.
3.3-3
 
A participant may elect to receive benefits in the form of an actuarially equivalent lump sum, as follows:
3.3-4
(a) Selecting lump sum as the form of benefits designated in the participant's Statement of Participation; or
(b) Making a qualifying Subsequent Lump Sum Election under 3.4.
If a lump-sum payment election under 3.3-4 or 3.4-1 applies to a participant's benefit, the following shall apply:
3.3-5
(a) The amount of the lump-sum payment shall be based on the basic supplemental benefit on retirement under 2.1 or 2.3 as applicable, using Final Average Pay and Years of Benefit Service and other pertinent benefit formula factors as of the benefit starting date under 3.1. For a benefit starting date before the participant's Normal Retirement Date, the 3 percent adjustment factor in 2.3 shall apply to the extent provided in 2.3-2. The resulting monthly retirement benefit shall then be converted to an actuarially equivalent present value using the interest rate and mortality table assumptions specified in 6.2.
(b) A lump-sum payment shall constitute complete satisfaction of the benefit obligation under this Plan to the participant, and this Plan's postretirement death benefit provisions shall not apply. However, the payback obligation under (e) shall remain in effect.
(c) If a participant dies before starting to receive benefits with a lump-sum payment election in effect and a surviving spouse qualifies for preretirement death benefits under 4.3, the surviving spouse benefit shall be the actuarially equivalent value of the remaining portion of the benefit calculated under 4.3(b), payable in a lump sum. If the participant is unmarried on the date of death, there is no preretirement death benefit and 4.3 shall not apply. The actuarial equivalency shall be determined in a manner consistent with (a).
(d) A lump-sum election shall apply to the participant's entire benefit, regardless of whether the service to which the participant's benefit relates is performed before or after the election is made. Partial lump-sum payment elections shall not be allowed.
(e) A participant's election to receive a lump-sum payment shall constitute an irrevocable agreement by the participant to return the amount received if the electing participant engages in Competition under 2.5-3 within three years after termination of employment, or within three years after receipt of the lump sum distribution, if later. The amount to be returned shall be the full amount distributed plus interest at 7 percent per annum minus the monthly amounts that would have been paid to the participant in the normal benefit form up to the date the Competition began.
 
3.4 Subsequent Lump Sum Election
After enrollment, a participant may elect once to change the form of payment of benefits to or from a lump sum payment by filing a Subsequent Lump Sum Election, subject to 3.4-2.
3.4-1
The following requirements apply to Subsequent Lump Sum Elections under 3.4-1:
3.4-2
(a) The Subsequent Lump Sum Election must be in writing on a form prescribed by the Administrator, and must be consistent with one of the forms of benefit provided in 3.3.
(b) The Subsequent Lump Sum Election must be delivered to the Administrator not less than 12 months before the participant's benefit starting date under 3.1 (as determined without regard to a five-year delay under (c)).
(c) A participant may submit one (but not more than one) Subsequent Lump Sum Election by December 31, 2007. For a change made by a Subsequent Lump Sum Election received after December 31, 2007, the benefit starting date for the participant will be delayed five years from the date the benefit would have been paid if the change had not been made. During the five year delay, there will not be any pre-retirement death benefit payable. The early retirement reduction under 2.3-2 will be applied as of the delayed starting date. Any delay beyond age 65 will be actuarially adjusted to reflect the delay using actuarial assumptions applicable to determining comparable benefits under the PCC Retirement Plan.
 
Subject to 3.4, if a participant dies after starting to receive benefits, or dies after retiring under 2.1, 2.3 or 2.4 but before starting benefits under 3.1, a death benefit shall be paid only as elected by the participant under 1.3, 1.4 and 3.3. A spouse's post-retirement death benefit shall only be paid to the spouse to whom the participant was married on the participant's benefit starting date, even if the participant is married to another spouse on the date of death.
4.1
Except as provided in 4.3, if a participant dies before starting to receive benefits or qualifying under 4.1, no death benefit shall be paid. The surviving spouse benefits under 4.3 shall only be payable if the participant and spouse are legally married on the date of death.
4.2
Subject to 1.2-2(e), 3.3-5(c) and 4.2, the surviving spouse of a participant who dies while employed in employment qualifying the participant to earn additional Years of Benefit Service and after the participant has earned at least 10 Years of Eligibility Service, or whose death while so employed is directly related to the participant's employment, shall receive a death benefit as follows:
4.3
(a) The benefit shall be a monthly payment for the surviving spouse's life, starting on the first day of the month after the participant's death.
 
(b) Subject to (c), the amount of the spouse's monthly benefit shall be the amount determined under the 50 percent contingent annuity form described in 3.3-2. In determining the amount of the benefit, the participant's actual Years of Benefit Service, Final Average Pay and relevant offsets shall be used. On death of a participant before his or her Normal Retirement Date, the reduction under 2.3 shall apply. On death of a participant before early retirement age, the benefit reduction will be calculated with reference to the participant's earliest available retirement age (determined by imputing advancing age and service after death).
(c) If a participant election under 3.3-2 to receive benefits in the form of a contingent annuity with payments continued to the surviving spouse in full is in effect, then the amount under (b) shall be determined using that benefit form.
 
Benefits shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. The Company may, but shall not be required to, set aside funds in advance for payment of benefits under this Plan. Even if funds are set aside, that shall not cause this to be a funded employee benefit plan. Participants' rights under this Plan shall be only as general creditors of the Company.
 
Subject to 6.3, the Board of Directors of the Company may amend or terminate this Plan on the first day of any month by notice to the participants subject to the restrictions in Code section 409A but may not revoke any participant's benefit that has a value, determined in accordance with 6.2, as of the revocation date. No value shall be attributed to any spousal survivor benefit for a participant who has not already retired and commenced benefits or to the cash-out payment option for any participant regardless of retirement status. Absent acceleration of vesting under 6.2, the value of an unvested benefit is zero. No benefit accrues for a participant before the participant meets the age and service requirements for vesting under 2.3-4.
6.1
Regular Procedure.
If there is a Change in Control, there will be a total Plan termination effective on the date of the Change in Control and all participants will be fully vested immediately. A change in ownership of an Affiliate of the Company that does not occur as part of a Change in Control under Section 10 will not trigger this 6.2. Vested accrued benefits will be immediately paid as an accelerated vested benefit. The benefit shall be a lump-sum payment as of the first day of the month after the Change in Control. The amount shall be the actuarially determined present value of the participant's basic supplemental benefit on retirement, including Final Average Pay and Years of Benefit Service as of the date of the Change in Control and relevant offsets calculated and applied in a manner consistent with calculating a normal retirement benefit, using the following mortality and interest rate assumptions:
6.2
Change in Control.
(a) The mortality table shall be the RP2000 Healthy Annuitant mortality tables (100 percent male for retirees and 100 percent female for spouses) projected to 2010 by scale AA.
 
(b) The interest rate for each year shall be determined by using the 24-month average of the Moody's Long-Term Corporate Bond Yield composite index, ending with the November of the preceding year, less 110 basis points. Each year's interest rate shall remain in effect for distributions that occur at any time during the year.
No cash-out value shall be attributed to any spousal survivor benefit for a participant. If a participant qualifies for payment of a benefit under this provision, but dies before payment of the benefit, the benefit shall be paid to the participant's surviving spouse if the participant is married on the date of death, or to the participant's estate if the participant is not married on the date of death.
The chief executive officer of the Company may amend this Plan to make technical, editorial or operational changes on advice of counsel to comply with applicable law or to simplify or clarify this Plan. The Committee is also authorized to adopt changes under this provision, and shall be the only authorized party to adopt such a change if it affects the benefit of the chief executive officer without having the same effect on substantially all other similarly situated participants. The chief executive officer and the Committee may each delegate amendment authority under this provision to one or more executive officers of the Company, except that no officer to whom authority is delegated may adopt a change if it affects the benefit of that officer without having the same effect on substantially all other similarly situated participants. For example, if applicable tax laws, regulations, revenue rulings or revenue procedures would require a participant to report taxable income due to a benefit under this Plan before the benefit is payable to the participant, this Plan may be amended under this provision to prevent such premature taxation. The Company, the Committee, the chief executive officer and their employees, officers, agents and others acting on their behalf shall not have any liability to any Plan participant or beneficiary with respect to such premature taxation, regardless of whether or not an amendment has been made under this provision.
6.3
Technical, Editorial or Operational Changes.
Notwithstanding any restriction in this Plan, the Company may amend this Plan from time to time to comply with Code section 409A or with other legal requirements that would cause material adverse consequences to participants if violated.
6.4
 
This Plan shall not be a contract of employment between the Company or an Affiliate and any participant. No participant may object to termination of this Plan under Section 6. This Plan shall not prevent the Company or an Affiliate from discharging any participant from employment at any time.
 
Any person claiming a benefit, requesting an interpretation or ruling under this Plan, or requesting information under this Plan shall present the request to the Administrator, who shall respond in writing as soon as practicable. Oral claims must be confirmed in writing by the claimant within a reasonable time. If no written confirmation is received within two weeks of an oral claim, the Administrator may state the claim in writing communicated to the claimant and then proceed on that basis.
8.1
Filing Procedure.
If the claim or request is denied, the written notice of denial shall state:
8.2
Notice of Denial.
(a) The reasons for the denial, with specific reference to this Plan's provisions on which the denial is based;
(b) A description of any additional material or information required and an explanation of why it is necessary; and
(c) An explanation of this Plan's claim review procedure.
Any person whose claim or request is denied or who has not received a response within 30 days may request review by notice in writing to the Administrator, who shall inform the Committee. The original decision shall be reviewed by the Committee, which may, but shall not be required to, grant the claimant a hearing. On review, whether or not there is a hearing, the claimant may have representation, examine pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing.
8.3
Review Procedure.
The decision on review shall ordinarily be made within 60 days. If an extension of time is required for a hearing or other special circumstance, the claimant shall be so notified and the time shall be 120 days. The decision shall be expressed in writing and shall state the reasons and the relevant Plan provisions. All decisions on review shall be final and bind all parties concerned.
8.4
Decision on Review.
 
If suit or action is instituted to enforce any rights under this Plan, the prevailing party may recover from the other party reasonable attorneys' fees at trial and on any appeal.
9.1
Any notice under this Plan shall be in writing and shall be effective when actually delivered or, if mailed, when deposited as registered or certified mail directed to the Company at the address stated in the Statement of Participation or to such other address as either party may specify by notice to the other party. Unless otherwise designated, notices to the Committee or the Administrator shall be sent to the address specified for the Company.
9.2
The rights of a participant under this Plan are personal. Except for amounts owing to or claimed by the Company or an Affiliate and except for the limited provisions of 3.3, no interest of a participant or spouse or representative of a participant may be directly or indirectly transferred, encumbered, seized by legal process or in any other way subjected to the claims of any creditor.
9.3
 
Following termination of employment, a participant shall not be an employee of the Company or an Affiliate for any purpose and payments under Section 3 shall not constitute salary or wages. A participant shall receive such payments as retirement benefits, not as compensation for performance of any substantial services.
9.4
Except as provided in 9.3, this Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their successors and assigns. If the Company or an Affiliate merges, consolidates or otherwise reorganizes, or its assets or business are acquired by another company, this Plan shall be binding upon the successor company and shall apply to any employment of participants by the successor company.
9.5
This Plan shall be construed according to the laws of Oregon except as preempted by federal law.
9.6
The Company may withhold from payments to a participant or surviving spouse any income tax or other amounts as required by law.
9.7
 
For purposes of determining whether a Change in Control has occurred, the following definitions shall apply:
"Change in Control" means a change in ownership of the Company under Section 10.2, a change in effective control of the Company under 10.3 or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets under 10.4.
10.1
A change in ownership occurs on the date that any one person or more than one person acting as a group acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock already held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of the Company's stock.
10.2
A change in ownership will not be deemed to occur if, before the person or group acquires additional Company stock, the person or group acquiring Company stock owned, or is treated as owning, more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of Company stock.
10.2-1
An increase in the ownership percentage of the person or group as a result of a transaction in which the Company redeems its stock for cash or other property will be treated as an acquisition by the person or group.
10.2-2
Ownership of stock will be determined by applying the rules in Code section 318(a) and by treating stock underlying a vested option as owned by the individual who holds the vested option, unless the stock to which the option applies is not substantially vested as defined in Treasury Regulation section 1.83-3(b) and (j).
10.2-3
 
Persons will be considered as acting as a group to acquire or hold Company stock or effective control of the Company to the extent provided by applicable regulations or other written guidance published by the Internal Revenue Service.
10.2-4
A change in effective control of the Company shall occur, regardless whether a change in ownership occurs under 10.2, on the date that an event described in 10.3-1 or 10.3-2 occurs, subject to 10.3-3.
10.3
A change in effective control occurs on the date that any one person or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period that ends on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) ownership of Company stock possessing more than 35 percent of the total voting power of the Company's stock.
10.3-1
A change in effective control also occurs on the date that a majority of the Company's Board of Directors is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose election is not endorsed by a majority of the Company's Board members prior to the date of election or appointment.
10.3-2
A change in effective control will not result from the acquisition of additional control of the Company by any person or group that, immediately before such acquisition, owned more than 35 percent of the total voting power of the Company's stock.
10.3-3
A change in ownership of a substantial portion of the Company's assets occurs on the date that any person or more than one person acting as a group acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group) Company assets with a total gross fair market value equal to 40 percent or more of the total gross fair market value of all of the Company's assets immediately prior to the acquisition (or series of acquisitions).
10.4
"Gross fair market value" for this purpose means the value of the Company's assets or the value of the assets being disposed of, without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.
10.4-1
No Change in Control occurs solely because the Company transfers assets to an entity controlled by the Company's shareholders immediately after the transfer.
10.4-2
No change in ownership of the Company's assets is deemed to occur solely by reason of a transfer of the Company's assets to any of the following:
10.4-3
(a) A shareholder of the Company (immediately before the asset transfer) in exchange for the Company's stock;
(b) An entity, half or more of whose total value or voting power is owned by the Company (directly or indirectly);
 
(c) A person or group that owns (directly or indirectly) 50 percent or more of the value or voting power of all of the Company's outstanding shares; or
(d) An entity, half or more of whose total value or voting power is owned (directly or indirectly) by a person who owns 50 percent or more of the value or voting power of the Company's outstanding shares.
 
This 2005 Restatement shall be effective January 1, 2005. Procedures for changes from provisions of the SERPLevel Two Plan shall be implemented according to a schedule established by the Administrator.
 
 


