FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20061102170438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 25, 2006, Precision Castparts Corp. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three months ended July 2, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
On October 24, 2006, Precision Castparts Corp. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three and six months ended October 1, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP. DELIVERS STRONG SALES GROWTH AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE WITH FIRST QUARTER FISCAL 2007 RESULTS
PORTLAND, Oregon  July 25, 2006  Precision Castparts Corp. (NYSE:PCP) reported vigorous sales and earnings growth in its core businesses, both year over year and sequentially, for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, while aggressively integrating the Special Metals businesses into the Company's overall operations following completion of the acquisition on May 25, 2006.
First Quarter FY2007 Financial Highlights
First quarter fiscal 2007 sales grew 31.6 percent over last year's first quarter sales, with total sales of $1,122.5 million this year versus sales of $853.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Net income from continuing operations increased to $118.0 million in this year's first quarter, compared to $77.9 million last year, yielding earnings per share of $0.86 (diluted, based on 137.2 million shares outstanding), an improvement of 48.3 percent over earnings per share of $0.58 (diluted, based on 134.8 million shares outstanding) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The above results for fiscal 2007 include five weeks of operations at Special Metals. Also included in the current quarter's results is $4.8 million, or $0.03 per share (diluted), of expense for stock-based compensation.
July 25, 2006
Page 2 of 5
 
Including discontinued operations, Precision Castparts' net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 was $115.1 million, or $0.84 per share (diluted). Major activity in discontinued operations included the sale of real estate from an SPS Magnetics business, which was classified as a discontinued operation from the time of acquisition, and the closure of two small businesses in the Industrial Products segment.
Business Highlights
: With record production levels for both commercial aerospace OEM and aftermarket, Investment Cast Products sales totaled $428.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, growing 10.5 percent over sales of $387.3 million during last year's first quarter. Operating income increased by 23.2 percent year over year, reaching $91.9 million this year, or 21.5 percent of sales, compared to $74.6 million, or 19.3 percent of sales in the first quarter of 2006. Leverage from increased commercial aircraft production rates, aftermarket growth, and continued share gains propelled this segment's strong performance.
Investment Cast Products
: Benefiting from the same market forces as Investment Cast Products and the acquisition of Special Metals, Forged Products' sales in the first quarter increased year over year by 93.8 percent, with sales of $395.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 versus sales of $204.0 million last year. Metal pass-through accounted for $45.1 million of first quarter fiscal 2007 sales, compared to $21.0 million last year. Operating income grew year over year, jumping 146.1 percent to $56.1 million, or 14.2 percent of sales, in this year's first quarter, versus $22.8 million, or 11.2 percent of sales last year. Sales in the base Wyman-Gordon forging business grew more than 30 percent year over year, driven by higher demand for commercial aerospace and extruded pipe products, and operating income as a percentage of sales increased by more than 5 percentage points over
Forged Products
July 25, 2006
Page 3 of 5
 
the same period. Sales and earnings at Special Metals were both better than the latest projections, with operating margins as a percentage of sales firmly on track to reach double digits by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. With sales, purchasing, and manufacturing synergies well underway, Special Metals provides a solid platform for growth, with significant runway to create value going forward.
: Fastener Products' sales in the quarter totaled $241.5 million, a year-over-year increase of 19.2 percent over sales of $202.6 million last year. The segment boosted its operating income by 56.9 percent to $48.8 million, or 20.2 percent of sales, this year, compared to $31.1 million, or 15.4 percent of sales, in the first quarter of 2006. Sales growth in the quarter was driven by increased critical aerospace fastener volumes and a full quarter of sales from the Shur-Lok acquisition. The segment continued to increase its operating margins by aggressively leveraging higher sales and by reducing costs and adding value throughout the production process.
Fastener Products
: Continued weak conditions in the automotive market affected Industrial Products' year-over-year performance in the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Segment sales in the quarter totaled $57.6 million, versus $59.1 million last year, and operating income was $9.9 million, compared to $12.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Operating margins have continued to show steady improvement after bottoming out in the latter half of fiscal 2006.
Industrial Products
"We are solidly positioned for continued profitable growth," said Mark Donegan, chairman and chief executive officer of Precision Castparts Corp. "Our core businesses are producing components at record volumes, and we are adding critical capacity to handle even higher production levels. We have gained outstanding market penetration on key programs, and we are achieving good leverage out of all of our operations, with ample opportunity on every front to
July 25, 2006
Page 4 of 5
 
capture further margin improvement. On top of that, Special Metals provides us a clear line of sight to achieve significant top- and bottom-line growth.
"The first quarter of fiscal 2007 was on target, and we look forward to another strong year," Donegan continued. "As in previous years, the second and third quarters should show modest growth, as strong production levels are partially offset by planned maintenance downtime for our large forging presses, holidays, and fewer manufacturing days. Then, with a full complement of working days, coupled with additional manufacturing capacity and early-stage production of long-lead components for the new Boeing 787 aircraft, sales growth is expected to strengthen in the fourth quarter.
"Every one of our core businesses contains abundant upside opportunities," Donegan said. "In addition, we are just in the very early stages of driving our operational metrics through Special Metals, which holds significant promise for long-term value creation. We continue to focus on further critical aerospace fastener acquisitions to enhance Fastener Products' competitive profile, providing yet another catalyst for additional profitable growth. The strong market forces behind our first quarter performance show every sign of continuing, and we intend to deliver results consistent with this strength going forward."
Precision Castparts Corp. is a worldwide, diversified manufacturer of complex metal components and products. It serves the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and general industrial and other markets. PCC is the market leader in manufacturing large, complex structural investment castings, airfoil castings, and forged components used in jet aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. The Company is also a leading manufacturer of highly engineered, critical fasteners for aerospace, automotive, and other markets and supplies metal alloys and other materials to the casting and forging industry.
July 25, 2006
Page 5 of 5
 
Information included within this press release describing projected growth and future results and events constitutes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results in future periods may differ materially from the forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to fluctuations in the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and other general industrial cycles; the relative success of the Company's entry into new markets; competitive pricing; the financial viability of the Company's significant customers; the availability and cost of energy, materials, supplies, insurance, and pension benefits; equipment failures; relations with the Company's employees; the Company's ability to manage its operating costs and to integrate acquired businesses in an effective manner; governmental regulations and environmental matters; risks associated with international operations and world economies; the relative stability of certain foreign currencies; and implementation of new technologies and process improvement. Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any forward-looking information to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Precision Castparts Corp.'s press releases are available on the Internet at the PrimeZone Media Network's website - or PCC's home page at
http://www.PrimeZone.com
http://www.precast.com.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
PORTLAND, Oregon  October 24, 2006  Robust end markets, market share gains, and a full quarter of the Special Metals acquisition, together with the Company's never-ending drive toward low-cost leadership, propelled year-over-year sales and earnings growth to record levels for Precision Castparts Corp. (NYSE:PCP) in the second quarter of fiscal 2007.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2007 Financial Highlights
Net sales from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 were $1,319.3 million, growing 51.8 percent over sales of $869.3 million in last year's second quarter. Consolidated segment operating income totaled $232.5 million, or 17.6 percent of sales, versus $129.3 million, or 14.9 percent of sales a year ago. Earnings per share from continuing operations increased 74.6 percent year over year, from $0.59 per share (diluted, based on 135.5 million shares outstanding) in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 to $1.03 per share (diluted, based on 137.3 million shares outstanding) this year. In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, net income from continuing operations was $142.0 million, versus $80.3 million in the same quarter last year. The current quarter's results include a charge of $4.8 million pretax, or $0.03 per share, for stock-based compensation, which was not in last year's results.
October 24, 2006
Page 2 of 6
 
Net income for the quarter, including discontinued operations, totaled $154.8 million, or $1.13 per share (diluted). Compared to net income from continuing operations, the increased earnings were driven by a gain on the sale of the Company's joint venture interest in a ring-rolling operation in Mexico, which was recorded in discontinued operations. By comparison, net income was $79.1 million, or $0.58 per share (diluted) in the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
Business Highlights
In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, Investment Cast Products grew sales from $402.3 million in last year's second quarter to sales of $441.0 million this year. Operating income increased by 23.1 percent over the same period, from $78.9 million, or 19.6 percent of sales, a year ago to $97.1 million, or 22.0 percent of sales this year. Driven by heightened aerospace OEM and aftermarket sales, record production volumes were achieved during the quarter. PCC Structurals is continuing to expand its large titanium component capacity, and PCC Airfoils is on track to bring on the first two of six new casting furnaces in the third quarter. Full-scale production from this added capacity will gradually ramp up through the first half of fiscal 2008.
Investment Cast Products:
The Forged Products segment significantly increased year-over-year sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, jumping to $574.8 million from sales of $209.4 million last year, fueled by the acquisition of Special Metals, strong OEM and aftermarket aerospace sales, and seamless pipe growth. Metal pass-through was $54.0 million of sales, a $31.9 million increase over last year's pass-through of $22.1 million. The segment's operating income grew from $27.6 million, or 13.2 percent of sales, a year ago to operating income of $92.5 million, or 16.1 percent of sales, in the second quarter of 2007. Operating income in the current quarter included approximately $5 million of non-recurring purchase price adjustments at Special Metals, which added approximately 0.9 percentage points
Forged Products:
October 24, 2006
Page 3 of 6
 
to the segment's operating margin for the quarter. In the second quarter of fiscal 2007, Special Metals reported solid sales and earnings, moving quickly out of the blocks and accelerating the realization of synergies throughout its operations. At Wyman-Gordon Forgings, robust aerospace and seamless pipe markets drove strong, double-digit sales increase year over year, and effective leverage of these higher volumes enabled the business to improve operating income as a percentage of sales over the same period. The Forged Products' segment made steady progress on two significant capital projects: a second isothermal forge for Wyman-Gordon and a new rotary forge for Special Metals, both of which will move into full-scale production in fiscal 2008.
Fastener Products sales jumped 22.1 percent year over year, from $200.6 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2006 to sales of $244.9 million this year. Operating income grew 58.8 percent over the same period, from $32.3 million, or 16.1 percent of sales, a year ago to $51.3 million, or 20.9 percent of sales, in the second quarter of fiscal 2007. The segment benefited during the quarter from rapidly accelerating aerospace sales, which more than overcame continued weakness in the automotive market. Improved operating margin performance resulted not only from leveraging increased production volumes, but also from identifying and executing further opportunities for cost takeout throughout the segment's many operations.
Fastener Products:
The Industrial Products segment reported sales of $58.6 million, with operating income of $11.0 million, versus sales of $57.0 million and operating income of $4.9 million last year. The segment increased its operating margins for the third consecutive quarter, thus establishing a solid base for future improvement.
Industrial Products:
"Production volumes are at an all-time high, with demand continuing to increase," said Mark Donegan, chairman and chief executive officer of Precision Castparts
October 24, 2006
Page 4 of 6
 
Corp. "The most important task at hand is execution, providing the tools and focusing on the daily discipline in each and every one of our manufacturing operations worldwide. Right now, this focus is enabling many of our core businesses to achieve record operating margins. At the same time, Special Metals is rapidly integrating many of the synergies we identified prior to the acquisition, while discovering additional opportunities for top- and bottom-line growth. The Special Metals team has really grabbed hold of the PCC manufacturing tools and cost-reduction mentality, and they are making outstanding progress on all fronts.
"We are adding the necessary capacity to handle the increased production loads," said Donegan. "By the first half of calendar 2007, we will have increased large structural titanium capacity, added six new airfoil casting furnaces, and completed installation of a second isothermal press, providing as much as $190.0 million of incremental sales, which is needed to support current contractual volume. In the same time frame, Special Metals' new rotary forge will be up and running in Dunkirk, New York, delivering increasing yields.
"Looking ahead, the third quarter will be impacted by two significant factors," Donegan continued. "As in past years, this quarter has the least number of manufacturing days in the fiscal year, due to holiday-related plant shutdowns. In addition, Wyman-Gordon Forgings' operating income and margins will be affected by unfavorable LIFO expense, as higher-cost nickel and titanium alloys are delivered under new contracts. However, these higher material costs will be recovered with higher selling prices, as parts using this material are finished and shipped to customers in the fourth quarter of this fiscal year. While these factors will exert downward pressure on third-quarter earnings, we fully expect renewed earnings strength in the fourth quarter and going forward.
"We continue to stay focused on our balance sheet," Donegan said. "We generated $179.3 million of cash during the quarter, and we are aggressively paying down
October 24, 2006
Page 5 of 6
 
debt. At the end of the second quarter, total debt stood at $956.9 million, with a debt-to-total-capitalization ratio of 28.0 percent. All things being equal, we are on track to pay off the debt incurred for the Special Metals acquisition much more quickly than anticipated, enabling us to capitalize on acquisition opportunities as they become available."
Precision Castparts Corp. is a worldwide, diversified manufacturer of complex metal components and products. It serves the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and general industrial and other markets. PCC is the market leader in manufacturing large, complex structural investment castings, airfoil castings, and forged components used in jet aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. The Company is also a leading producer of highly engineered, critical fasteners for aerospace, automotive, and other markets.
Information included within this press release describing projected growth and future results and events constitutes forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results in future periods may differ materially from the forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to fluctuations in the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and other general industrial cycles; the relative success of the Company's entry into new markets; competitive pricing; the financial viability of the Company's significant customers; the availability and cost of energy, materials, supplies, insurance, and pension benefits; equipment failures; relations with the Company's employees; the Company's ability to manage its operating costs and to integrate acquired businesses in an effective manner; governmental regulations and environmental matters; risks associated with international operations and world economies; the relative stability of certain foreign currencies; and implementation of new technologies and process improvement. Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any
October 24, 2006
Page 6 of 6
 
forward-looking information to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Precision Castparts Corp.'s press releases are available on the Internet at the PrimeZone Media Network's website - or PCC's home page at .
http://www.PrimeZone.com
http://www.precast.com
 
 
 


