FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20060601163119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On May 25, 2006, Precision Castparts Corp. ("PCC") completed the acquisition of Special Metals Corporation ("SMC"), a leading manufacturer of high-performance nickel-based alloys and super alloys. PCC acquired 100 percent of the outstanding shares of stock from Contrarian Funds, LLC, Calyon New York Branch, Calder & Co., BNP Paribas Cayman Branch, Natexis Banque Populaires and other shareholders. The total purchase price was approximately $553 million in cash, including the repayment of SMC's outstanding debt in the amount of approximately $240 million and the purchase of approximately 10.5 million shares valued at $29.44 per share. PCC financed the acquisition with its existing line of credit. The financial results of SMC will be reported in PCC's Forged Products segment.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
PORTLAND, OR  May 25, 2006  Precision Castparts Corp. (NYSE:PCP) has completed the acquisition of Special Metals Corporation (SMC), a leading manufacturer of high-performance nickel-based alloys and super alloys.
The acquisition of SMC, a cash transaction funded through the Company's credit facilities, will provide Precision Castparts Corp. (PCC) with an internal supply of nickel-based billet for its Forged Products operations, as well as strengthening and diversifying PCC's sales profile.
The financial results of SMC will be reported as part of PCC's Forged Products segment, beginning with the Company's first quarter FY07 earnings announcement, which is scheduled for Tuesday, July 25, 2006.
Precision Castparts Corp., headquartered in Portland, Oregon, is a worldwide, diversified manufacturer of complex metal components and products. It serves the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and general industrial and other markets. PCC is the market leader in manufacturing large, complex structural investment castings, airfoil castings, and forged components used in jet aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. The Company is also a leading producer of highly engineered, critical fasteners for aerospace, automotive, and other markets.
Information included within this press release describing projected growth and future results and events constitutes forward-looking statements, within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results in future periods may differ materially from the forward-looking statements because of a number of risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to fluctuations in the aerospace, power generation, automotive, and other general industrial cycles; the relative success of the Company's entry into new markets; competitive pricing; the financial viability of the Company's significant customers; the availability and cost of energy, materials, supplies, insurance, and pension benefits; equipment failures; relations with the Company's employees; the Company's ability to manage its operating costs and to integrate acquired businesses in an effective manner; governmental regulations and environmental matters; risks associated with international operations and world economies; the relative stability of certain foreign currencies; and implementation of new technologies and process improvement. Any forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release any forward-looking information to reflect anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Precision Castparts Corp.'s press releases are available on the Internet at the PrimeZone Media Network's website  or PCC's home page at .
http://www.PrimeZone.com
http://www.precast.com


