FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20070521161255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On May 16, 2007, Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") and its subsidiary guarantors entered into Amendment No. 4 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and Amendment No. 2 to Guaranty Agreement (the "Amendment") with Bank of America, N.A. and the other lenders under the Company's Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of October 14, 2005, as amended (the "Credit Agreement"). Under the Credit Agreement, various lenders provide the Company with certain credit facilities, including a revolving credit facility.
The Amendment, among other things, reduces the facility fee and borrowing spread under the Credit Agreement, extends the maturity date of the Credit Agreement to May 16, 2012, with an option, exercisable by the Company, to request up to two one-year extensions in the maturity date, subject to the approval of each lender, and permits the Company to request increases in the aggregate principal amount available under the Credit Agreement to a maximum of $1,500,000,000, subject to the agreement of each lender to increase their respective commitment.
A copy of Amendment No. 4 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and Amendment No. 2 to Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 16, 2007 is attached hereto and filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Execution Version
This Amendment No. 4 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and Amendment No. 2 to Guaranty Agreement (this "") dated as of May 16, 2007 is made by and among PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP., an Oregon corporation (the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States (""), in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement (as defined below)) (in such capacity, the ""), each of the Lenders signatory hereto, and each of the Guarantors (as defined in the Credit Agreement) signatory hereto.
Agreement
Borrower
Bank of America
Administrative Agent
, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders have entered into that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and Waiver to Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2005, as further amended by Amendment No. 2 and Waiver to Credit Agreement dated as of December 16, 2005 and as further amended by Amendment No. 3 and Waiver to Credit Agreement dated as of January 31, 2006 (as so amended, as hereby amended and as from time to time hereafter further amended, modified, supplemented, restated, or amended and restated, the ""; capitalized terms used in this Agreement not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings given thereto in the Credit Agreement), pursuant to which the Lenders have made available to the Borrower a revolving credit facility, including a letter of credit facility and a swing line facility; and
WHEREAS
Credit Agreement
, each of the Guarantors has entered into a Guaranty pursuant to which it has guaranteed the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents; and
WHEREAS
, the Borrower has advised the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that it and the Guarantors desire to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Guaranty as set forth below, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders signatory hereto are willing to effect such amendment on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement;
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises and further valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
1. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to Credit Agreement
(a) The grid set forth in the definition of "Applicable Rate" in of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following in lieu thereof:
Section 1.02
 
(b) The definition of "Obligations" in of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following in lieu thereof:
Section 1.02
" ' means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, the Borrower or any Subsidiary arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, or arising under any Related Credit Arrangement, in each case whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding."
Obligations
(c) The definition of "Threshold Amount" in of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following in lieu thereof:
Section 1.02
" ' means $50,000,000."
Threshold Amount
(d) The definition of "Revolving Credit Maturity Date" in of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following in lieu thereof:
Section 1.02
" ' means (a) May 16, 2012 (subject to extension in accordance with hereof) or (b) such earlier date upon which the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments may be terminated in accordance with the terms hereof."
Revolving Credit Maturity Date
Section 2.15
(e) The following new definitions are hereby added to of the Credit Agreement in their proper alphabetical order:
Section 1.02
" " means, collectively, Related Swap Contracts and Related Treasury Management Arrangements."
Related Credit Arrangements
 
" means all arrangements for the delivery of services pursuant to any Treasury Management Agreement to or for the benefit of the Borrower or any Subsidiary which are entered into or maintained with a Lender or Affiliate of a Lender and which are not prohibited by the express terms of the Loan Documents.
Related Treasury Management Arrangements
' means any agreement governing the provision of treasury or cash management services, including deposit accounts, credit or debit cards, funds transfer, automated clearinghouse, zero balance accounts, returned check concentration, controlled disbursement, lockbox, account reconciliation and reporting and trade finance services."
Treasury Management Agreement
(f) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by:
Section 2.09(b)
(i) deleting the phrase "equal to 0.125%" therein and replacing it with "equal to the Applicable Rate" in lieu thereof, and
(ii) deleting the sentence "The Utilization Fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears" therein and replacing it with "The Utilization Fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect." in lieu thereof.
(g) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the reference to "$250,000,000" therein and replacing it with "$500,000,000" in lieu thereof.
Section 2.14(a)
(h) The following new is hereby added to the Credit Agreement:
Section 2.15
"
2.15 Extension of Revolving Credit Maturity Date.
(a) . The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) request that each Lender extend such Lender's Revolving Credit Maturity Date for an additional year from the then-existing Revolving Credit Maturity Date, such request to be made (i) in the event of the first extension option, not earlier than 60 days and not later than 45 days prior to May 16, 2008 (the ""), and (ii) in the event of the second extension option, not earlier than 60 days and not later than 45 days prior to May 16, 2009 (the "" and together with the First Extension Date, the "").
Requests for Extension
First Extension Date
Second Extension Date
Extension Dates
(b) . In case of a request for extension at either Extension Date, each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given
Lender Elections to Extend
 
not later than the date (the "") that is 25 days prior to the applicable Existing Revolving Credit Maturity Date, advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (and each Lender that determines not to so extend its Revolving Credit Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 20 days prior to the applicable Extension Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
(d) . The Borrower shall have the right to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "") as provided in ; that (i) the Borrower shall offer the Revolving Credit Commitments of Non-Extending Lenders first to Extending Lenders (defined below), it being understood no Extending Lender shall have an obligation to take any such Non-Extending Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment, and (ii) each of such Additional Commitment Lenders shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the applicable Extension Date, undertake a Revolving Credit Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Revolving Credit Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Revolving Credit Commitment hereunder on the date of such assignment).
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 3.08
provided
(e) . If (and only if) the total of the Revolving Credit Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Revolving Credit Maturity Date (each, an "") and the additional Revolving Credit Commitments of the Additional Commitment Lenders shall be more than 50% of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Commitments in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date, then, effective as of the applicable Extension Date, the Revolving Credit Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling one year after the then-existing Revolving Credit Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Revolving Credit Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
 
(f) . As a condition precedent to such extension, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated on or prior to the applicable Extension Date (in sufficient copies for each Extending Lender and each Additional Commitment Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such extension and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such extension (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the date of such certificate, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively of , and (B) no Default exists. In addition, on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date of each Non-Extending Lender, the Borrower shall prepay any Revolving Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Revolving Loans ratable with any revised Pro Rata Shares of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
Article V
Section 2.15
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
(g) . This shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary."
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.15
Section 2.13
10.01
(i) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the "or" immediately prior to clause (c) thereof, and inserting the following subsection (d) immediately prior to the definition of "Restricted Lender" contained therein:
Section 3.08
", or (d) fails to consent to an extension of the Maturity Date properly requested pursuant to "
Section 2.15
(j) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the first sentence thereof with the following:
Section 5.15
"As of the Closing Date, the Borrower has disclosed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect."
(k) The reference in the second parenthetical in the lead-in to of the Credit Agreement to "Related Swap Contracts" is hereby replaced with "Related Credit Arrangements" in lieu thereof.
Article VI
 
(l) The reference in the second parenthetical in the lead-in to of the Credit Agreement to "Related Swap Contracts" is hereby replaced with "Related Credit Arrangements" in lieu thereof.
Article VII
(m) of the Credit Agreement, and the accompanying , are hereby deleted in their entirety, without replacement thereof.
Section 7.08
Schedule 7.08
(n) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following proviso at the end of such section:
Section 7.10(a)
"; that if at any time after the payment in full and termination of the Private Notes, and if at such time there is no other Indebtedness replacing the Private Notes containing a consolidated net worth covenant, the Debt Rating is either BBB+ or higher by S&P or Baa1 or higher by Moody's, then in such case this covenant shall at such time and at all times thereafter cease to apply."
provided
(o) of the Credit Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Section 8.01(h)
"(h) . There is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary (i) a final judgment or order for the payment of money in an aggregate amount exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are appropriately commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of ten consecutive days during which either (x) such judgment is not discharged or (y) a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or"
Judgments
(p) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the paragraphs labeled "", "" and "" therein in their entirety and replacing such paragraphs with the following:
Section 8.03
Second
Third
Fourth
", to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including Attorney Costs and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations arising under the Loan Documents, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, L/C Borrowings and Obligations arising under Related Credit Arrangements, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;"
Fourth
Fourth
(q) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the paragraph labeled "" contained therein, without any replacement thereof, and re-labeling the paragraph labeled "" contained therein as "" in lieu thereof.
Section 8.03
Sixth
Seventh
Sixth
(r) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following paragraph at the end of such section:
Section 8.03
"Notwithstanding the foregoing, Obligations arising under Related Credit Arrangements shall be excluded from the application described above unless the Administrative Agent has received written notice thereof, together with such supporting documentation as the Administrative Agent may request, from the applicable Lender or Affiliate of Lender, as the case may be, of (A) the existence of such Related Credit Arrangement, and (B) the sums due to the applicable Lender or Affiliate of a Lender, as the case may be, on the date any such amounts are applied pursuant to this . Each Affiliate of a Lender not a party to the Credit Agreement who obtains the benefit of the foregoing provision or any collateral by virtue of the provisions hereof or of the Guaranty shall be deemed to have acknowledged and accepted the appointment of the Administrative Agent pursuant to the terms of hereof for itself and its Affiliates as if a "Lender" party to the Credit Agreement.
Section 8.03
Article IX
2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Guaranty is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to Guaranty
(a) The parenthetical in the initial paragraph of the Guaranty setting forth the definition of "Secured Parties" is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"(collectively with the Administrative Agent, and certain other Persons parties to Related Credit Arrangements as more particularly described in hereof, the ')"
Section 19
Secured Parties
(b) Subpart (c) of the definition of "Borrower's Liabilities" contained in of the Guaranty is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Section 1
"(c) the prompt payment in full, when due or declared due and at all such times, of obligations and liabilities of the Borrower or any Subsidiary now or hereafter arising under Related Credit Arrangements."
 
(c) Subpart (iii) of the definition of "Facility Termination Date" contained in of the Guaranty is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Section 9(c)
"(iii) the obligations and liabilities of the Borrower and each Subsidiary under all Related Credit Arrangements shall have been fully, finally and irrevocably paid and satisfied in full and the Related Credit Arrangements shall have expired or been terminated, or other arrangements satisfactory to the counterparties thereto or the providers thereof shall have been made with respect thereto;"
(d) of the Guaranty is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
Section 19
". All obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary under Related Credit Arrangements to which any Lender or its Affiliates are a party shall be deemed to be Borrower's Liabilities, and each Lender or Affiliate of a Lender party to any such Related Credit Arrangement shall be deemed to be a Secured Party hereunder with respect to such Borrower's Liabilities; , , that such obligations shall cease to be Borrower's Liabilities at such time, prior to the Facility Termination Date, as such Person (or Affiliate of such Person) shall cease to be a Lender' under the Credit Agreement."
19. Related Credit Arrangements
provided
however
(e) The reference in the final recitals to the Guaranty Joinder Agreement, attached as to the Guaranty, to a "Related Swap Contracts" is hereby amended to refer to "Related Credit Arrangements" in lieu thereof.
Exhibit A
3. . The effectiveness of this Agreement and the amendments to the Credit Agreement and the Guaranty herein provided are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Effectiveness; Conditions Precedent
(a) the Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following documents or instruments in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent:
(i) four (4) original counterparts of this Agreement, duly executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, each Guarantor and each of the Lenders (after giving effect to the provisions of Paragraph 13 of this Agreement);
(ii) resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower and of each Guarantor, in each case authorizing the transactions contemplated hereby, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of Borrower; and
(iii) such other documents, instruments, opinions, certifications, undertakings, further assurances and other matters as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request; and
 
(b) all fees and expenses payable to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (including the fees and expenses of counsel to the Administrative Agent and the fees provided in that certain fee letter among Bank of America, Banc of America Securities LLC and the Borrower dated as of April 17, 2007) estimated to date shall have been paid in full (without prejudice to final settling of accounts for such fees and expenses).
4. . Each Guarantor hereby consents, acknowledges and agrees to the amendments set forth herein and hereby confirms and ratifies in all respects the Guaranty to which such Guarantor is a party (including without limitation the continuation of such Guarantor's payment and performance obligations thereunder upon and after the effectiveness of this Agreement and the amendments contemplated hereby) and the enforceability of such Guaranty against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms.
Consent of the Guarantors
5. . In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Agreement, the Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows:
Representations and Warranties
(a) The representations and warranties made by the Borrower and each other Loan Party in (other than the representation and warranty in ) of the Credit Agreement and in each of the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, and except that the representations and warranties contained in and  of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to and , respectively;
Article V
Section 5.05(c)
Sections 5.05(a)
(b)
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
(b) Since the date of the most recent financial reports of the Borrower delivered pursuant to of the Credit Agreement, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
Section 6.01(a)
(c) The Persons appearing as Guarantors on the signature pages to this Agreement constitute all Persons who are required to be Guarantors pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including without limitation all Persons who became Subsidiaries or were otherwise required to become Guarantors after the Closing Date, and each of such Persons has become and remains a party to a Guaranty as a Guarantor;
(d) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Borrower and Guarantors party hereto and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such parties, except as may be limited by general principles of equity or by the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally; and
(e) No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
6. . This Agreement, together with all the Loan Documents (collectively, the ""), sets forth the entire understanding and agreement of
Entire Agreement
Relevant Documents
 
the parties hereto in relation to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior negotiations and agreements among the parties relating to such subject matter. No promise, condition, representation or warranty, express or implied, not set forth in the Relevant Documents shall bind any party hereto, and no such party has relied on any such promise, condition, representation or warranty. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that, except as otherwise expressly stated in the Relevant Documents, no representations, warranties or commitments, express or implied, have been made by any party to the other in relation to the subject matter hereof or thereof. None of the terms or conditions of this Agreement may be changed, modified, waived or canceled orally or otherwise, except in writing and in accordance with of the Credit Agreement.
Section 10.01
7. . Except as hereby specifically amended, modified or supplemented, the Credit Agreement, the Guaranty and all other Loan Documents are hereby confirmed and ratified in all respects and shall be and remain in full force and effect according to their respective terms.
Full Force and Effect of Agreement
8. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by facsimile or electronic format (including .tif or .pdf) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts
9. . This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts executed and to be performed entirely within such State, and shall be further subject to the provisions of and of the Credit Agreement.
Governing Law
Sections 10.14
10.15
10. . Should any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement be determined to be illegal or unenforceable as to one or more of the parties hereto, all other provisions nevertheless shall remain effective and binding on the parties hereto.
Enforceability
11. . All references in any of the Loan Documents to the "Credit Agreement" shall mean the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby. All references in any of the Loan Documents to the "Guaranty" shall mean the Guaranty, as amended hereby.
References
12. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and each of the Guarantors and Lenders, and their respective successors, legal representatives, and assignees to the extent such assignees are permitted assignees as provided in of the Credit Agreement.
Successors and Assigns
Section 10.06
13. . With effect from and including the date of the effectiveness of this Agreement in accordance with Paragraph 3 hereof, the Revolving Credit Commitment of each Lender shall be the amount set forth opposite the name of such Lender on the revised to the Credit Agreement set forth on to this Agreement (the ""), which shall replace the existing to the Credit Agreement. Any Lender under the Credit Agreement prior to the effectiveness of this Agreement that does not appear on the Revised Allocation Schedule (each, a "
Revolving Credit Commitments
Schedule 1.01(a)
Exhibit A
Revised Allocation Schedule
Schedule 1.01(a)
Departing
 
") shall, upon the effectiveness of this Agreement in accordance with Paragraph 3 hereof, cease to be a Lender under the Credit Agreement and all accrued fees and other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement for the account of each Departing Lender (it being understood that as of the date hereof, there are not Outstanding Amounts of Revolving Loans) shall be due and payable on such date; that the provisions of , , and shall continue to inure to the benefit of each Departing Lender with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effectiveness of this Agreement as if an assignment had been made pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Lender
provided
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
Section 10.06(b)
 
, the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be made, executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


