FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20071119172239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On November 14, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") made the annual stock option award grant for 2007 to certain employees of the Company, including all of the Company's executive officers, at an exercise price of $140.74 per share, which was the closing market price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. Except for the stock option award to William D. Larsson, the terms of the awards were consistent with the terms of the Company's previously disclosed stock option award agreements, including vesting in equal annual installments over a four-year period contingent upon the recipient's continued employment with the Company. Mr. Larsson is the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, and his award agreement covers an option to purchase 34,000 shares. Mr. Larsson's award agreement specifies that if his employment terminates on or after December 31, 2008, (a) any unexercisable portion of the option covered by the award will become exercisable in full and (b) the option covered by the award will remain exercisable for its full ten-year term. The form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement granted to Mr. Larsson is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
On November 14, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company's Bylaws to expressly allow for uncertificated shares of the Company's stock. The amendment is reflected in the Bylaws of the Company filed as Exhibit 3.2 hereto.
 
On November 14, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors approved technical amendments to the Company's 1994 Stock Incentive Plan and 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan. The purpose of the amendments was to conform the language in the Company's various stock option plans regarding vesting of stock options during certain types of approved leaves of absence. The amendments are reflected in the 1994 Stock Incentive Plan and 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3 hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
1.1 .
Annual Meeting
(1) The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held on the third Wednesday in the month of August in each year, or on such other date as the Board of Directors shall determine, for the purpose of electing directors and transacting only such other business as is properly brought before the meeting in accordance with these Bylaws. Failure to hold an annual meeting shall not affect the validity of any corporate action.
(2) To be properly brought before the meeting, business must be either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before a meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a shareholder. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive office of the Corporation, not less than 50 days nor more than 75 days prior to the meeting; , , that in the event that less than 65 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the 15th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
(3) A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (a) one or more matters appropriate for shareholder action that the shareholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (b) a brief description of the matters desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (c) the name and record address of the shareholder, (d) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which shareholder owns or is entitled to vote, and (e) any material interest of the shareholder in such matters.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at the annual meeting except in accordance with the procedure set forth in this Section 1.1; , , that nothing in this Section 1.1 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any business properly brought before the annual meeting.
provided
however
(5) The Chairman shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.1, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
1.2 . A special meeting of the shareholders shall be held if called by the Chairman or by the Board of Directors or if requested by the holders of not less than one-tenth of all votes entitled to be cast on any issue proposed to be considered at the meeting. A request by shareholders to hold a special meeting shall be signed, dated and delivered to the Secretary and shall set forth the information required by Section 1.1(3) of these Bylaws.
Special Meetings
1.3 . Meetings of the shareholders shall be held at any place in or out of Oregon designated by the Board of Directors. If a meeting place is not designated by the Board of Directors, the meeting shall be held at the Corporation's principal office.
Place of Meetings
1.4 . Written or printed notice stating the date, time and place of the shareholders meeting and, in the case of a special meeting or a meeting for which special notice is required by law, the purposes for which the meeting is called shall be mailed by the Corporation to each shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting and, if required by law, to any other shareholders entitled to receive notice, at the shareholder's address shown in the Corporation's record of shareholders, with postage prepaid, not earlier than 60 days nor less than 10 days before the meeting date.
Notice of Meetings
1.5 . The officer presiding at any meeting of the shareholders shall have authority to determine the agenda and order of business at the meeting and to adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary or desirable to promote the fair and efficient conduct of the business of the meeting.
Conduct of Meeting
1.6 . A shareholder may at any time waive any notice required by law, these Bylaws or the Articles of Incorporation. The waiver shall be in writing, be signed by the shareholder entitled to the notice and be delivered to the Corporation for inclusion in the minutes for filing with the corporate records. A shareholder's attendance at a meeting waives objection to (i) lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless the shareholder at the beginning of the meeting objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (ii) consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purposes described in the meeting notice, unless the shareholder objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
Waiver of Notice
1.7 . The Board of Directors may fix a record date to determine the shareholders entitled to notice of a shareholders meeting, demand a special meeting, vote, take any other action or receive payment of any share or cash dividend or other distribution. This date shall not be earlier than 70 days or, in the case of a meeting, later than 10 days before the meeting or action requiring a determination of shareholders. The record date for
Fixing of Record Date
any meeting, vote or other action of the shareholders shall be the same for all voting groups. If not otherwise fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date to determine shareholders entitled to notice of and to vote at an annual or special shareholders meeting is the close of business on the day before the notice is first mailed or delivered to shareholders. If not otherwise fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date to determine shareholders entitled to receive payment of any share or cash dividend or other distribution is the close of business on the day the Board of Directors authorizes the share or cash dividend or other distribution.
1.8 . After a record date for a meeting is fixed, the Corporation shall prepare an alphabetical list of all shareholders entitled to notice of the shareholders meeting. The list shall be arranged by voting group and, within each voting group, by class or series of shares, and it shall show the address of and number of shares held by each shareholder. The shareholders list shall be available for inspection by any shareholder, upon proper demand as may be required by law, beginning two business days after notice of the meeting is given and continuing through the meeting, at the Corporation's principal office or at a place identified in the meeting notice in the city where the meeting will be held. The Corporation shall make the shareholders list available at the meeting, and any shareholder or the shareholder's agent or attorney shall be entitled to inspect the list at any time during the meeting or any adjournment. Refusal or failure to prepare or make available the shareholders list does not affect the validity of action taken at the meeting.
Shareholders List for Meeting
1.9 .
Quorum; Adjournment
(1) Shares entitled to vote as a separate voting group may take action on a matter at a meeting only if a quorum of those shares exists with respect to that matter. A majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter by the voting group constitutes a quorum of that voting group for action on that matter.
(2) A majority of votes represented at the meeting, although less than a quorum, may adjourn the meeting from time to time to a different time and place without further notice to any shareholder of any adjournment. At an adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting originally held.
(3) Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting, it shall be present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is or must be set for the adjourned meeting. A new record date must be set if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.
1.10 .
Voting Requirements; Action Without Meeting
(1) If a quorum exists, action on a matter, other than the election of directors, by a voting group is approved if the votes cast within the voting group favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless a greater number of affirmative votes is required by law or the Articles of Incorporation. Unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation, directors are elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the shares entitled to vote in the election at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
(2) Action required or permitted by law to be taken at a shareholders meeting may be taken without a meeting if the action is taken by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action. The action must be evidenced by one or more written consents describing the action taken, signed by all the shareholders entitled to vote on the action and delivered to the Secretary for inclusion in the minutes for filing with the corporate records. Shareholder action taken by written consent is effective when the last shareholder signs the consent, unless the consent specifies an earlier or later effective date.
1.11 . A shareholder may vote shares in person or by proxy. A shareholder may appoint a proxy by signing an appointment form either personally or by the shareholder's attorney-in-fact. An appointment of a proxy is effective when received by the Secretary or other officer of the Corporation authorized to tabulate votes. An appointment is valid for 11 months unless a different period is provided in the appointment form. An appointment is revocable by the shareholder unless the appointment form conspicuously states that it is irrevocable and the appointment is coupled with an interest that has not been extinguished.
Proxies
1.12 . As provided in Section 10, Chapter 820, Oregon Laws 1987 and to the fullest extent permitted by that section, the Corporation shall be authorized to require a holder of control shares to sell the control shares to the Corporation for fair value. The term "control shares" shall have the same meaning as that term has in Chapter 820, Oregon Laws 1987. The procedures for acquisition of control shares pursuant to this section shall be that the Board of Directors shall determine the fair value of the control shares and shall give notice to the holder of the control shares of the fair value and the time at which payment for the control shares will be available. The Corporation will then make payment for the control shares against delivery of the shares.
Acquisition of Control Shares
2.1 . All corporate powers of the Corporation shall be exercised by or under the authority of its Board of Directors; the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of its Board of Directors.
Duties of Board of Directors
2.2 . The number of directors of the Corporation shall be at least seven (7) and no more than twelve (12). Within this range, the number of directors shall initially be eleven, and the number of directors shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. At the 1983 annual meeting of shareholders, the directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the first class ("Class I") to expire at the 1984 annual meeting of shareholders, the term of office of the second class ("Class II") to expire at the 1985 annual meeting of shareholders and the term of office of the third class ("Class III") to expire at the 1986 annual meeting of shareholders. At each annual meeting of shareholders following such initial classification and election, directors
Number, Tenure and Qualification
elected to succeed those directors whose terms expire shall be elected to serve three-year terms and until their successors are elected and qualified, so that the term of one class of directors will expire each year. When the number of directors is changed pursuant to this Section 2, any newly created directorships, or any decrease in directorships, shall be so apportioned among the classes so as to make all classes as nearly equal as possible, provided that no decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director. Directors need not be residents of the State of Oregon or shareholders of the Corporation.
2.3 . Not less than 50 days nor more than 75 days prior to the date of any annual meeting of shareholders, any shareholder who intends to make a nomination at the annual meeting shall deliver a notice to the Secretary of the Corporation setting forth (a) as to each nominee whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the nominee, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the nominee, (iii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the nominee and (iv) any other information concerning the nominee that would be required, under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, in a proxy statement soliciting proxies for the election of such nominee; and (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice, (i) the name and record address of the shareholder and (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the shareholder; , , that in the event that less than 65 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered not later than the close of business on the 15th day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made, whichever first occurs. Such notice shall include a signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation, if elected, of each such nominee. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
Shareholder Nomination of Directors
provided
however
2.4 . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without notice other than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors may provide by resolution the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings in or out of Oregon without notice other than the resolution.
Regular Meetings
2.5 . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman or by one-third of the directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix any place in or out of Oregon as the place for holding any special meeting of the Board of Directors called by them.
Special Meetings
2.6 . Notice of the date, time and place of any special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be given at least 24 hours prior to the meeting by notice communicated in person, by telephone, telegraph, teletype, other form of wire or wireless communication, mail or private carrier. If written, notice shall be effective at the earliest of (a) when received, (b) five days after its deposit in the United States mail, as evidenced by the postmark, if mailed postpaid and correctly addressed, or (c) on the date shown on the return receipt, if sent by registered or
Notice
certified mail, return receipt requested and the receipt is signed by or on behalf of the addressee. Notice by all other means shall be deemed effective when received by or on behalf of the director. Notice of any regular or special meeting need not describe the purposes of the meeting unless required by law or the Articles of Incorporation.
2.7 . A director may at any time waive any notice required by law, these Bylaws or the Articles of Incorporation. Except as set forth below, the waiver must be in writing, be signed by the director entitled to the notice, specify the meeting for which notice is waived and be filed with the minutes or corporate records. A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to the director of the meeting unless the director at the beginning of the meeting, or promptly upon the director's arrival, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
Waiver of Notice
2.8 . A majority of the number of directors set forth in Section 2.2 of these Bylaws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors. If less than a quorum is present at a meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice.
Quorum
2.9 . The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless a different number is provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
Manner of Acting
2.10 .
Meeting by Telephone Conference; Action Without Meeting
(1) Directors may participate in a regular or special meeting by, or conduct the meeting through, use of any means of communications by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. Participation in a meeting by this means shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
(2) Any action that is required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if one or more written consents describing the action taken are signed by all of the directors entitled to vote on the matter and included in the minutes or filed with the corporate records reflecting the action taken. The action shall be effective when the last director signs the consent, unless the consent specifies an earlier or later effective date.
2.11 . Any vacancy on the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors, may be filled by the shareholders, the Board of Directors, the remaining directors if less than a quorum (by the vote of a majority thereof) or by a sole remaining director. Not more than two vacancies resulting from increases in the number of directors may be filled by the Board of Directors during any one period between annual meetings of shareholders of the Corporation. Any vacancy not filled by the directors shall be filled by election at an annual meeting or at a special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose. A vacancy that will occur at a specified later date, by reason of a resignation or otherwise, may be filled before the vacancy occurs, but the new director may not take office until the vacancy occurs.
Vacancies
2.12 . By resolution of the Board of Directors, the directors may be paid reasonable compensation for services as directors and their expenses of attending meetings of the Board of Directors.
Compensation
2.13 . A director who is present at a meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors shall be deemed to have assented to the action taken at the meeting unless (a) the director's dissent or abstention from the action is entered in the minutes of the meeting, (b) the director delivers a written notice of dissent or abstention to the action to the presiding officer of the meeting before any adjournment or to the Corporation immediately after the adjournment of the meeting or (c) the director objects at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon the director's arrival to the holding of the meeting or transacting business at the meeting. The right to dissent or abstain is not available to a director who voted in favor of the action.
Presumption of Assent
2.14 . All or any number of the directors may be removed without cause at a meeting called expressly for that purpose, by a vote of the holders of 75 percent of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors. All or any number of the directors may be removed with cause by the shareholders at a meeting called expressly for that purpose.
Removal
2.15 . Any director may resign by delivering written notice to the Board of Directors, its chairperson or the Corporation. Unless the notice specifies a later effective date, a resignation notice shall be effective upon the earlier of (a) receipt, (b) five days after its deposit in the United States mails, if mailed postpaid and correctly addressed, or (c) on the date shown on the return receipt, if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, and the receipt is signed by addressee. Once delivered, a resignation notice is irrevocable unless revocation is permitted by the Board of Directors.
Resignation
3.1 . The Board of Directors may create one or more committees and appoint members of the Board of Directors to serve on them. Each committee shall have one or more members. The creation of a committee and appointment of members to it must be approved by a majority of all directors in office when the action is taken. Subject to any limitation imposed by the Board of Directors or by law, each committee may exercise all the authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the Corporation. A committee may not take any action that a committee is prohibited from taking by the Oregon Business Corporation Act.
Committees
3.2 . Subject to the provisions of law, the Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to change the number of committee members, fill committee vacancies, change any committee members and change the functions and terminate the existence of a committee.
Changes of Size and Function
3.3 . Each committee shall conduct its meetings in accordance with the applicable provisions of these Bylaws relating to meetings and action without meetings of the Board of Directors. Each committee shall adopt any further rules regarding its conduct, keep minutes and other records and appoint subcommittees and assistants as it deems appropriate.
Conduct of Meetings
3.4 . By resolution of the Board of Directors, committee members may be paid reasonable compensation for services on committees and their expenses of attending committee meetings.
Compensation
4.1 . The officers of the Corporation shall be a President, one or more Vice Presidents, Secretary and, if desired by the Board of Directors, a Treasurer. The Chairman of the Board of Directors ("Chairman") shall also be an officer if designated by the Board of Directors as chief executive officer, but shall not otherwise be considered to hold an officer position. Such other officers and assistant officers as may be deemed necessary may be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Number
4.2 . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the shareholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at the meeting, it shall be held as soon thereafter as is convenient. Each officer shall hold office until a successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until the officer's death, resignation or removal in the manner hereinafter provided.
Election and Term of Office
4.3 . Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed by the Board of Directors whenever in its judgment the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, but removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
Removal
4.4 . A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise, may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term.
Vacancies
4.5 . The Board of Directors shall designate a chief executive officer of the Corporation, who may be either the Chairman or the President. The chief executive officer shall have general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation, subject to the control of the Board of Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
4.6 . The Board of Directors may designate a chief operating officer of the Corporation, who may be any executive officer of the Corporation unless the Chairman is designated chief executive officer, in which case the President shall serve as chief operating officer. The chief operating officer, if one is designated, shall have such general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation as shall be delegated to the chief operating officer by the chief executive officer or by the Board of Directors.
Chief Operating Officer
4.7 . The Board of Directors may designate a chief financial officer of the Corporation, who shall be a Vice President of the Corporation. The chief financial officer, if one is designated, shall be the principal financial accounting officer of the Corporation and, if a Treasurer of the Corporation is not separately appointed, shall have the duties of the Treasurer set forth in Section 4.12 below. The chief financial officer shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may require.
Chief Financial Officer
4.8 . The Chairman shall be selected by the Board of Directors from within its membership and shall preside at all meetings of shareholders and directors. At the election of the Board of Directors, the Chairman may also be designated chief executive officer of the Corporation. The Chairman may execute on behalf of the Corporation all contracts, agreements, stock certificates and other instruments. The Chairman shall from time to time report to the Board of Directors all matters within the Chairman's knowledge affecting the Corporation which should be brought to the attention of the Board. The Chairman shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
4.9 . The President shall serve as either the chief executive officer or chief operating officer of the Corporation, as designated by the Board of Directors, and shall have such general supervision, direction and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation set forth under Section 4.5 or 4.6, above, as applicable. The President may execute on behalf of the Corporation all contracts, agreements, stock certificates and other instruments. The President shall vote all shares of stock in other corporations owned by the Corporation, and shall be empowered to execute proxies, waivers of notice, consents and other instruments in the name of the Corporation with respect to such stock. In the absence of the Chairman, or in the event of the Chairman's death, inability or refusal to act, the President shall perform the duties of the Chairman, and when so acting, shall have all the powers and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairman. The President shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Board of Directors.
President
4.10 . In the absence of the President or in the event of the President's death, inability or refusal to act, the Vice President (or in the event there be more than one Vice President, the Vice Presidents in the order designated at the time of their election, or in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. Any Vice President shall perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Chairman, the President or by the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
4.11 . The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the directors and shareholders, and shall have custody of the minute books and other records pertaining to the corporate business. The Secretary shall countersign all stock certificates and other instruments requiring the seal of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be required by the Board of Directors.
Secretary
4.12 . The Treasurer shall keep correct and complete records of accounts showing the financial condition of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall be legal custodian of all moneys, notes, securities and other valuables that may come into the possession of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall deposit all funds of the Corporation which come into the Treasurer's hands in depositories which the Board of Directors may designate. The Treasurer shall pay the funds out only on the check of the Corporation signed in the manner authorized by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may require.
Treasurer
4.13 . The salaries of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such salary because the officer is also a director of the Corporation.
Salaries
5.1 . The Corporation shall indemnify its directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by the Oregon Business Corporation Act (Act), as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of alleged occurrences of actions or omissions preceding any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than the Act permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment).
Directors and Officers
5.2 . The Corporation shall have power to indemnify its employees and other agents as set forth in the Act.
Employees and Other Agents
5.3 . The termination of any proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that the person had reasonable cause to believe that the conduct was unlawful.
No Presumption of Bad Faith
5.4 . The expenses incurred by a director or officer in any proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance at the written request of the director or officer, if the director or officer:
Advances of Expenses
(a) furnishes the Corporation a written affirmation of such person's good faith belief that such person is entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation; and
(b) furnishes the Corporation a written undertaking to repay such advance to the extent that it is ultimately determined by a court that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation. Such advances shall be made without regard to the person's ability to repay such expenses and without regard to the person's ultimate entitlement to indemnification under this Bylaw or otherwise.
5.5 . Without the necessity of entering into an express contract, all rights to indemnification and advances under this Bylaw shall be deemed to be contractual rights and be effective to the same extent and as if provided for in a contract between the Corporation and the director or officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this Bylaw and relevant provisions of the Act and other applicable law, if any, are in effect. Any right to indemnification or advances granted by this Bylaw to a director or officer shall be enforceable by or on behalf of the person holding such right in any court of competent jurisdiction if (a) the claim for indemnification or advances is denied, in whole or in part, or (b) no disposition of such claim is made within ninety (90) days of request therefor. The claimant in such enforcement action, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting a claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in connection with any proceeding in advance of its final disposition when the required affirmation and undertaking have been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the Act for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its shareholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because the claimant has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the Act, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel or its shareholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Enforcement
5.6 . The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in the person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office. The Corporation is specifically authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its directors, officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, to the fullest extent permitted by the law.
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
5.7 . The rights conferred on any person by this Bylaw shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or other agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such person.
Survival of Rights
5.8 . To the fullest extent permitted by the Act, the Corporation, upon approval by the Board of Directors, may purchase insurance on behalf of any person required or permitted to be indemnified pursuant to this Bylaw.
Insurance
5.9 . Any repeal of this Bylaw shall only be prospective and no repeal or modification hereof shall adversely affect the rights under this Bylaw in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is the cause of any proceeding against any agent of the Corporation.
Amendments
5.10 . If this Bylaw or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, the Corporation shall indemnify each director, officer or other agent to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Bylaw that shall not have been invalidated, or by any other applicable law.
Savings Clause
5.11 . For the purposes of this Bylaw, the following definitions shall apply:
Certain Definitions
(a) The term "proceeding" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, the investigation, preparation, prosecution, defense, settlement and appeal of any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
(b) The term "expenses" shall be broadly construed and shall include, without limitation, expense of investigations, judicial or administrative proceedings or appeals, attorneys' fees and disbursements and any expenses of establishing a right to indemnification under Section 5.5 of this Bylaw, but shall not include amounts paid in settlement, judgments or fines.
(c) The term "corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting or surviving corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as the person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
(d) References to a "director," "officer," "employee," or "agent" of the Corporation shall include, without limitation, situations where such person is serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, trustee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.
(e) References to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" in the Act shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to any employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the corporation" shall
include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Bylaw.
6.1 . Before the Corporation issues shares, the Board of Directors shall determine that the consideration received or to be received for the shares to be issued is adequate. The authorization by the Board of Directors of the issuance of shares for stated consideration shall evidence a determination by the Board that such consideration is adequate.
Adequacy of Consideration
6.2 .
Certificates for Shares
(1) Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be in any form determined by the Board of Directors consistent with the requirements of the Oregon Business Corporation Act and these Bylaws. The certificates shall be signed, either manually or in facsimile, by two officers of the Corporation, at least one of whom shall be the Chairman, the President or a Vice President, and may be sealed with the seal of the Corporation, if any, or a facsimile thereof. All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified. The signatures of officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or any assistant transfer agent or registered by a registrar, other than the Corporation itself or an employee of the Corporation.
(2) Every certificate for shares of stock that are subject to any restriction on transfer or registration of transfer pursuant to the Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws, securities laws, a shareholders agreement or any agreement to which the Corporation is a party shall have conspicuously noted on the face or back of the certificate either the full text of the restriction or a statement of the existence of the restriction and that the Corporation retains a copy of the full text. Every certificate issued when the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class or series within a class of shares shall set forth on its face or back either (a) a summary of the designations, relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each class and the variations in rights, preferences and limitations for each series authorized to be issued and the authority of the Board of Directors to determine variations for future series or (b) a statement of the existence of those designations, relative rights, preferences and limitations and a statement that the Corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of the certificate upon written request and without charge.
(3) All certificates surrendered to the Corporation for transfer shall be canceled. The Corporation shall not issue a new certificate for previously issued shares until the former certificate or certificates for those shares are surrendered and canceled; except that in case of a lost, destroyed or mutilated certificate, a new certificate may be issued on terms prescribed by the Board of Directors.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 6.2, the Corporation may issue shares of its capital stock without such shares being represented by certificates to the extent permitted by the Oregon Business Corporation Act.
6.3 . The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars for the shares of the Corporation, with powers and duties determined by the Board of Directors.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
6.4 . If the person who signed a share certificate, either manually or in facsimile, no longer holds office when the certificate is issued, the certificate is nevertheless valid.
Officer Ceasing to Act
7.1 . Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board of Directors may authorize any officers or agents to execute and deliver any contract or other instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, and this authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Contracts
7.2 . The Corporation shall not borrow money and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by the Board of Directors. This authority may be general or confined to specific instances.
Loans
7.3 All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of money and notes or other evidences of indebtedness issued in the name of the Corporation shall be signed in the manner and by the officers or agents of the Corporation designated by the Board of Directors.
Checks, Drafts, Etc.
7.4 . All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in those banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board of Directors or officers of the Corporation designated by the Board of Directors select, or be invested as authorized by the Board of Directors.
Deposits
8.1 . A determination that any provision of these Bylaws is for any reason inapplicable, invalid, illegal or otherwise ineffective shall not affect or invalidate any other provision of these Bylaws.
Severability
8.2 . These Bylaws may be amended or repealed and new Bylaws may be adopted by the Board of Directors or the shareholders of the Corporation.
Amendments

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT is made as of the "Grant Date", between Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the "Company"), and Optionee ("Optionee"). Grant date, optionee name, number of shares, and grant price are shown on the Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Option Agreement furnished to each Optionee.
Pursuant to the Precision Castparts Corp. 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors has voted in favor of granting to the Optionee an option to purchase Common Stock of the Company on the terms set forth below. In consideration of the promises and mutual covenants herein contained, the Company and the Optionee agree as follows:
1. . The Company hereby grants to the Optionee upon the terms and conditions hereinafter stated the right and option (the "Option") to purchase all or any part of an aggregate number of shares of the Company's authorized but unissued Common Stock at a grant price. The Option is a Nonstatutory Stock Option and is not an Incentive Stock Option, as defined in Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended. Under the conditions set forth in paragraph 2.5, the Optionee's right to exercise the Option shall terminate and in substitution therefor the Optionee shall have the right to exercise a stock appreciation right.
Grant
2. . The Option is granted upon the following terms:
Terms of Option
2.1 . Subject to reductions in the Option period as hereinafter provided in the event of termination of employment or death of the Optionee, the Option shall continue in effect for a period of ten (10) years from the date hereof.
Duration of the Option
2.2 . Except as provided in paragraph 2.5, the Option may be exercised from time to time beginning one year after the date hereof to the extent the Option has become vested. Twenty-five percent of the shares subject to the Option shall become vested one year after the date of this Agreement and an additional 25% shall become vested each year thereafter. If the Optionee does not exercise the Option in any one year for the full number of shares to which the Optionee is entitled, the rights shall be cumulative and the Optionee may exercise the Option for such shares in any subsequent year during the term of the option.
Time of Exercise
2.3 . Except as provided in paragraph 2.5, the Option may not be exercised unless at the time of such exercise the Optionee is employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company and shall have been so employed continuously since the date such option was granted. Absence on leave or on account of illness or disability under rules established by the Board of Directors shall not, however, be deemed an interruption of employment for this purpose.
Limitations on Right to Exercise
 
Precision Castparts Corp.
Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement
Page 1
2.4 . The Option is nonassignable and non-transferable by the Optionee except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the Optionee's domicile at the time of death, and is exercisable during the Optionee's lifetime only by the Optionee.
Nontransferability
2.5 .
Termination of Employment; Change of Control
(a) In the event the employment of the Optionee by the Company or by any parent or subsidiary of the Company is terminated for any reason, voluntarily or involuntarily, with or without cause, other than in the circumstances specified in subsection (b) or (c) below, the Option held by the Optionee may be exercised at any time prior to its expiration date or the expiration of six months after the date of such termination of employment, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the Optionee was entitled to exercise the Option on the date of such termination.
(b) In the event the Optionee's employment is terminated because of death, the Option held by the Optionee may be exercised at any time prior to its expiration date or the expiration of twelve months after the date of death, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the Optionee was entitled to exercise the option on the date of death. The Option shall be exercisable only by the person or persons to whom the Optionee's rights under the Option shall pass by the Optionee's will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the Optionee's domicile at the time of death. In the event the Optionee's employment is terminated by retirement on or after December 31, 2008, the Option may be exercised with respect to all remaining shares subject thereto, free of the vesting requirements of paragraph 2.2 at any time prior to its expiration date or the expiration of one year after the date of death of the Optionee following termination of employment, whichever period is shorter. If the Optionee's employment is terminated by retirement prior to December 31, 2008, the Option may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration of twelve months after the date of such termination of employment, but only if and to the extent the Optionee was entitled to exercise the Option on the date of termination. In the event of termination of employment because of total disability, the Option may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of the Option or six months after the date of such termination of employment, whichever is the shorter period but only if and to the extent the Optionee was entitled to exercise the Option on the date of termination. The term "total disability" means a mental or physical impairment which is expected to result in death or which has lasted or is expected to last for a continuous period of 12 months or more and which causes the optionee to be unable, in the opinion of the Company and two independent physicians, to perform his or her duties as an employee of the Company and to be engaged in any substantial gainful activity. Total disability shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day after the Company and the two independent physicians have furnished their opinion of total disability to the Company.
 
Precision Castparts Corp.
Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement
Page 2
(c) . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a special acceleration ("Special Acceleration") of the Option shall occur and the Option shall immediately become exercisable in full at any time when any one of the following events has taken place:
Acceleration in Certain Events
(1) The shareholders of the Company approve one of the following ("Approved Transactions"): (A) any consolidation, merger or plan of exchange involving the company ("Merger") pursuant to which Common Stock would be converted into cash; or (B) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transaction) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or (C) the adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or (D) any merger, consolidation or plan of exchange which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) 50% or less of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or exchange; or (E) any merger, consolidation or plan of exchange effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which a person acquires more than 20% of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(2) A tender or exchange offer, other than one made by the Company, is made for Common Stock (or securities convertible into Common Stock) and such offer results in a portion of those securities being purchased and the offeror after the consummation of the offer is the beneficial owner (as determined pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), directly or indirectly, of more than 20 percent of the outstanding Common Stock; or
(3) Any person is or becomes the beneficial owner of more than 20 percent of the Company's outstanding Common stock; or
(4) During any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted a majority of the Board of Directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the nomination or election of such new directors was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
All options that are accelerated pursuant to this paragraph 2.5(c) shall terminate upon the dissolution of the Company or upon the consummation of any Merger pursuant to which Common Stock would be converted to cash. The terms used in this paragraph 2.5(c) and not defined elsewhere in this Agreement shall have the same meanings as such terms have in the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder.
(d) In the event of death or termination of employment of the Optionee, to the extent the Option shall not have been exercised within the limited periods provided above, all further rights to purchase shares pursuant to the Option shall cease and terminate at the expiration of such periods.
2.6 . Shares may be acquired pursuant to the Option only upon receipt by the Company of written notice of exercise signed by the Optionee. In the notice, the Optionee shall specify the date the Option being exercised was granted, the number of shares covered by the Option, the Option price, the number of shares as to which the Option is being exercised, the form of payment to be used as prescribed below, and, unless in the opinion of counsel for the Company such a representation is not required in order to comply with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, containing a representation that it is the Optionee's
Purchase of Shares
 
Precision Castparts Corp.
Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement
Page 3
present intention to acquire the shares for investment and not with a view to distribution. Exercise of all or part of the Option constitutes a binding contract between the Company and the Optionee. The Optionee shall make payment in full for the shares covered by such exercise in cash, in shares of stock of the Company previously acquired and held for not less than one year by the Optionee, valued at fair market value as determined by the Board of Directors, or in any combination of cash and such shares of stock of the Company. If the Optionee elects to make full or partial payment in shares of stock, the Optionee shall deliver duly endorsed certificates representing such shares with the notice of exercise, or make alternate arrangements for delivery of the shares that are satisfactory to the Company, in its discretion. If the Optionee elects to make full or partial payment in cash, such payment shall be made in fully collected funds at the time of exercise provided that if the Optionee is executing an order for immediate sale of the shares acquired pursuant to the Option through a registered broker dealer, the Optionee may make such payment by delivering to the Company with the notice of exercise (i) a personal check for the exercise price and any applicable withholding taxes, which check shall be honored by the bank upon which it is drawn within five business days from the date of exercise, or such lesser number of business days equal to the settlement period for broker transactions under applicable law at the date of exercise, and (ii) an authorization and assignment for security purposes in form satisfactory to the Company pursuant to which the Company is entitled to obtain payment of the exercise price and any applicable withholding taxes from the proceeds of sale of the shares in the event the Optionee's check is not timely honored. Upon receipt of full payment of the exercise price and applicable taxes, the Company will issue certificate(s) representing the shares purchased. No shares shall be issued until full payment therefor has been made. The exercise and payment procedures set forth in this Section 2.6 are subject to change from time to time by the Company upon written notice to the Optionee.
2.7 . If, as of either the end of the Option term specified in Section 2.1 or the end of any of the post-termination exercise periods specified in Section 2.5, sales of Common Stock pursuant to the Company's Form S-8 registration statements are suspended because the Company is delinquent in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Option period or the post-termination exercise period, as applicable, shall be automatically extended to the date that is 90 days after the end of the suspension of sales pursuant to the Company's S-8 registration statements.
Suspension of the Company's Form S-8 Registration Statements
3. . The Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may at any time, in its sole discretion and without the consent of the Optionee, provide that a stock appreciation right shall be substituted for the Option. The number of shares subject to the stock appreciation right shall be equal to the number of Option shares that remain subject to the Option and as to which the Option has not been exercised. The substitution shall become effective upon written notification from the Company to the Optionee. Upon such notification, the Option shall terminate and shall no longer be exercisable. In substitution for the Option and subject to the same terms and conditions of this Agreement applicable to the Option, Optionee shall be entitled to exercise a stock appreciation right, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Substitution of Stock Appreciation Right
3.1 . The duration of the stock appreciation right shall be the same as the Option as provided in paragraph 2.1.
Duration of Stock Appreciation Right
 
Precision Castparts Corp.
Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement
Page 4
3.2 . The stock appreciation right shall be exercisable only to the extent that the Option would have been exercisable and only on the conditions applicable to the Option, including paragraphs 2.2, 2.3 and 2.5.
Time of Exercise; Limitations on Right to Exercise; Termination of Employment; Change of Control
3.3 . The stock appreciation right is nonassignable and non-transferable except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the Optionee's domicile at the time of death and is exercisable during the Optionee's lifetime only by the Optionee.
Nontransferability
3.4 . The stock appreciation right shall entitle the Optionee, upon exercise, to receive from the Company in exchange therefor an amount equal in value to the excess of the fair market value on the date of exercise of one share of Common Stock of the Company over the Option price per share (as set forth in the Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Option Agreement), multiplied by the number of shares covered by the stock appreciation right, or portion thereof, that is surrendered. No stock appreciation right shall be exercisable at a time that the amount determined under this subparagraph is negative. Payment by the Company upon exercise of a stock appreciation right shall be made in Common Stock valued at fair market value. For this purpose, the fair market value of the Common Stock shall be the closing price of the Common Stock last reported before the time of exercise, or such other value of the Common Stock as specified by the Board of Directors.
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Right
3.5 . No fractional shares shall be issued upon exercise of a stock appreciation right. In lieu thereof, cash may be paid in an amount equal to the value of the fraction or, if the Board of Directors or Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors shall determine, the number of shares may be rounded downward to the next whole share.
Fractional Shares
4. . The Optionee shall, upon notification of the amount due, if any, and prior to or concurrently with delivery of the certificates representing the shares with respect to which the Option (or stock appreciation right if paragraph 3 is applicable) was exercised, pay to the Company amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state, and local withholding tax requirements. If additional withholding becomes required beyond any amount deposited before delivery of the certificates, the Optionee shall pay such amount to the Company on demand. If the Optionee fails to make any payment required to be made by the Optionee hereunder, the Company may withhold such amount from any funds owed by the Company to the Optionee.
Withholding Tax
5. . In the event that the outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company are hereafter increased or decreased or changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities of the Company or another corporation, by reason of any reorganization, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock split-up, combination of shares, or dividend payable in shares, the Board of Directors shall make appropriate adjustments in the number and kind of shares for purchase pursuant to the Option (and the stock appreciation right, if paragraph 3 is applicable) and the corresponding Option price, or, in its discretion, select one of the alternative treatments of outstanding options and stock appreciation rights permitted under Section 12 of the Plan. Any such adjustment made by the Board of Directors shall be conclusive.
Changes in Capital Structure
 
Precision Castparts Corp.
Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement
Page 5
6. . The obligations of the Company under this Agreement are subject to the approval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company in accordance with Oregon law and to the approval of such state or federal authorities or agencies, if any, as may have jurisdiction in the matter. The Company will use its best efforts to take such steps as may be required by state or federal law or applicable regulations, including rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and any stock exchange on which the Company's shares may then be listed, in connection with the issuance or sale of any shares acquired upon the exercise of the Option (a stock appreciation right if paragraph 3 is applicable).
Approvals
7. . Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer upon the Optionee any right to be continued in the employment of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, or shall interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary by whom the Optionee is employed to terminate the Optionee's employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause.
Employment Rights
8. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company but except as hereinabove provided the Option (and the stock appreciation right if paragraph 3 is applicable) herein granted shall not be assigned or otherwise disposed of by the Optionee.
Binding Upon Successors
 
Precision Castparts Corp.
Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement
Page 6

Exhibit 10.2
1. . The purpose of this 1994 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") of Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") is to encourage selected employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who are in a position to influence the financial success of the Company or of its subsidiaries to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company and to give them added incentive to advance the interests of the Company, through an opportunity to share in its profits and growth.
Purpose
2. . Subject to adjustment as provided below and in paragraph 12, the shares to be offered under the Plan shall consist of Common Stock of the Company, and the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall not exceed 2,548,117 shares, plus any shares that are subject to options granted under the Company's 1984 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1984 Plan") which are outstanding on May 16, 1994 and which options expire, terminate or are cancelled under such plan after May 16, 1994. The shares issued under the Plan may be authorized and unissued shares or reacquired shares. If an option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan expires, terminates or is cancelled, the unissued shares subject to such option or stock appreciation right shall again be available under the Plan. If shares sold or awarded as a bonus under the Plan are forfeited to the Company or repurchased by the Company, the number of shares forfeited or repurchased shall again be available under the Plan.
Shares Subject to the Plan
3. .
Effective Date and Duration of Plan
(a) The Plan shall become effective as of May 18, 1994. No option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan to an officer who is subject to Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (an "Officer") or a director shall become exercisable, however, until the Plan is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock represented at a shareholders meeting at which a quorum is present and any such awards under the Plan prior to such approval shall be conditioned on and subject to such approval. Subject to this limitation, options and stock appreciation rights may be granted and shares may be awarded as bonuses or sold under the Plan at any time after the effective date and before termination of the Plan.
Effective Date.
(b) The Plan shall continue in effect until all shares available for issuance under the Plan have been issued and all restrictions on such shares have lapsed. The Board of Directors may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time except with respect to options and shares subject to restrictions then outstanding under the Plan. Termination shall not affect any outstanding options, any right of the Company to repurchase shares or the forfeitability of shares issued under the Plan.
Duration.
 
4. .
Administration
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company, which shall determine and designate from time to time the individuals to whom awards shall be made, the amount of the awards and the other terms and conditions of the awards. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may from time to time adopt and amend rules and regulations relating to administration of the Plan, advance the lapse of any waiting period, accelerate any exercise date, waive or modify any restriction applicable to shares (except those restrictions imposed by law) and make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board of Directors necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The interpretation and construction of the provisions of the Plan and related agreements by the Board of Directors shall be final and conclusive. The Board of Directors may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any related agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board of Directors.
(b) The Board of Directors may delegate to a committee of the Board of Directors or specified officers of the Company, or both (the "Committee") any or all authority for administration of the Plan. If authority is delegated to a Committee, all references to the Board of Directors in the Plan shall mean and relate to the Committee except (i) as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, (ii) that only the Board of Directors may amend or terminate the Plan as provided in paragraphs 3 and 15 and (iii) that a Committee including officers of the Company shall not be permitted to grant options to persons who are officers of the Company. If awards are to be made under the Plan to Officers or directors, authority for selection of Officers and directors for participation and decisions concerning the timing, pricing and amount of a grant or award, if not determined under a formula meeting the requirements of Rule 16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, shall be delegated to a committee consisting of two or more disinterested directors.
Committee.
(c) In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as officers or directors or as members of the Committee, the members of the Committee shall be indemnified by the Company against the reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan or any option granted thereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such Committee member is liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duties; provided that within sixty (60) days after institution of any such action, suit or proceeding a Committee member shall in writing offer the Company the opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same.
Indemnification of Committee.
5. . The Board of Directors may, from time to time, take the following action, separately or in combination, under the Plan: (i) grant Incentive Stock Options, as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), as provided in paragraphs 6(a) and 6(b); (ii) grant options other than
Types of Awards; Eligibility
 
Incentive Stock Options ("Non-Statutory Stock Options") as provided in paragraphs 6(a) and 6(c); (iii) award stock bonuses as provided in paragraph 7; (iv) sell shares subject to restrictions as provided in paragraph 8; (v) grant stock appreciation rights as provided in paragraph 9; (vi) grant cash bonus rights as provided in paragraph 10; and (vii) grant foreign qualified awards as provided in paragraph 11. Any such awards may be made to salaried key employees of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, including employees who are officers or directors, who have substantial responsibility in the direction and management of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or divisions. The Board of Directors shall select the individuals to whom awards shall be made and shall specify the action taken with respect to each individual to whom an award is made. At the discretion of the Board of Directors, an individual may be given an election to surrender an award in exchange for the grant of a new award. No individual may be granted options or stock appreciation rights under the Plan for more than 100,000 shares of Common Stock in any calendar year.
6. .
Option Grants
(a)
General Rules Relating to Options.
(i) . The Board of Directors may grant options under the Plan. With respect to each option grant, the Board of Directors shall determine the number of shares subject to the option, the option price, the period of the option, the time or times at which the option may be exercised and whether the option is an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Statutory Stock Option. At the time of the grant of an option or at any time thereafter, the Board of Directors may provide that an optionee who exercised an option with Common Stock of the Company shall automatically receive a new option to purchase additional shares equal to the number of shares surrendered and may specify the terms and conditions of such new options.
Terms of Grant
(ii) . Except as provided in paragraph 6(a)(iv) or as determined by the Board of Directors, no option granted under the Plan may be exercised unless at the time of such exercise the optionee is employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company and shall have been so employed continuously since the date such option was granted. Absence on leave or on account of illness or disability under rules established by the Board of Directors shall not, however, be deemed an interruption of employment for this purpose. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, vesting of options and stock appreciation rights shall continue during a medical, family or military leave of absence, whether paid or unpaid, and vesting of options and stock appreciation rights shall be suspended during any other unpaid leave of absence. Except as provided in paragraphs 6(a)(iv), 12 and 14, options granted under the Plan may be exercised from time to time over the period stated in each option in such amounts and at such times as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors, provided that options shall not be exercised for fractional shares. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if the optionee does not exercise an option in any one year with respect to the full number of shares to which the optionee is entitled in that year, the optionee's rights shall be cumulative and the optionee may purchase those shares in any
Exercise of Options
 
subsequent year during the term of the option. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if an Officer exercises an option within six months of the grant of the option, the shares acquired upon exercise of the option may not be sold until six months after the date of grant of the option.
(iii) . Each Incentive Stock Option and, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors with respect to an option granted to a person who is neither an Officer nor a director of the Company, each other option granted under the Plan by its terms shall be nonassignable and nontransferable by the optionee, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the optionee's domicile at the time of death, and each option by its terms shall be exercisable during the optionee's lifetime only by the optionee.
Nontransferability
(iv) .
Termination of Employment
(A) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, in the event the employment of the optionee with the Company or a subsidiary terminates for any reason other than because of physical disability, death or, in the case of Nonstatutory Stock Options, retirement, as provided in subparagraphs 6(a)(iv)(B), (C) and (D), the option may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of the option or the expiration of three months (six months in the case of Nonstatutory Stock Options) after the date of such termination, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the optionee was entitled to exercise the option at the date of such termination.
General Rule
(B) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, in the event of the termination of employment because of total disability, the option may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of the option or the expiration of three months after the date of such termination (six months in the case of Nonstatutory Stock Options), whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the optionee was entitled to exercise the option at the date of such termination. The term "total disability" means a mental or physical impairment which is expected to result in death or which has lasted or is expected to last for a continuous period of 12 months or more and which causes the optionee to be unable, in the opinion of the Company and two independent physicians, to perform his or her duties as an employee of the Company and to be engaged in any substantial gainful activity. Total disability shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day after the Company and the two independent physicians have furnished their opinion of total disability to the Company.
Termination Because of Total Disability
(C) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, in the event of the death of an optionee while employed by the Company or a subsidiary, the option may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of the option or the expiration of 12
Termination Because of Death
 
months after the date of death, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the optionee was entitled to exercise the option at the date of death and only by the person or persons to whom such optionee's rights under the option shall pass by the optionee's will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of domicile at the time of death.
(D) . In the event the employment of an optionee by the Company or by any subsidiary of the Company is terminated by retirement at normal retirement age as defined under the provisions of the Company's Retirement Plan or under conditions of bona fide early retirement, any Non-Statutory Stock Option may be exercised at any time prior to its expiration date or the expiration of twelve months after the date of such termination of employment, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the optionee was entitled to exercise the option on the date of such termination.
Termination Upon Retirement at Normal Retirement Age or at Bona Fide early Retirement
(E) . The Board of Directors, at the time of grant or at any time thereafter, may extend the 3-month, 6-month and 12-month exercise periods any length of time not longer than the original expiration date of the option, and may increase the portion of an option that is exercisable, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may determine.
Amendment of Exercise Period Applicable to Termination
(F) . To the extent that the option of any deceased optionee or of any optionee whose employment terminates is not exercised within the applicable period, all further rights to purchase shares pursuant to such option shall cease and terminate.
Failure to Exercise Option
(v) . Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, shares may be acquired pursuant to an option granted under the Plan only upon receipt by the Company of notice in writing from the optionee of the optionee's intention to exercise, specifying the date the option being exercised was granted, the number of shares as to which the optionee desires to exercise the option, and the date on which the optionee desires to complete the transaction, and if required in order to comply with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, containing a representation that it is the optionee's present intention to acquire the shares for investment and not with a view to distribution. Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, on or before the date specified for completion of the purchase of shares pursuant to an option, the optionee must have paid the Company the full purchase price of such shares in cash (including, with the consent of the Board of Directors, cash that may be the proceeds of a loan from the Company) or, with the consent of the Board of Directors, in whole or in part, in Common Stock of the Company valued at fair market value, restricted stock, promissory notes and other forms of consideration. The fair market value of Common Stock provided in payment of the purchase price shall be the closing price of the Common Stock as reported in on the trading day
Purchase of Shares
The Wall Street Journal
 
preceding the date the option is exercised, or such other reported value of the Common Stock as shall be specified by the Board of Directors. No shares shall be issued until full payment for the shares has been made. With the consent of the Board of Directors, an optionee may request the Company to apply automatically the shares to be received upon the exercise of a portion of a stock option (even though stock certificates have not yet been issued) to satisfy the purchase price for additional portions of the option. Each optionee who has exercised an option shall immediately upon notification of the amount due, if any, pay to the Company in cash amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. If additional withholding is or becomes required beyond any amount deposited before delivery of the certificates, the optionee shall pay such amount to the Company on demand. If the optionee fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company may withhold that amount from other amounts payable by the Company to the optionee, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors an optionee may satisfy this obligation, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold from the shares to be issued upon the exercise that number of shares that would satisfy the withholding amount due or by delivering to the Company Common Stock to satisfy the withholding amount. Upon the exercise of an option, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares issued upon exercise of the option, less the number of shares surrendered in payment of the option exercise or surrendered or withheld to satisfy withholding obligations.
(b) . Incentive Stock Options shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
Incentive Stock Options
(i) . No employee may be granted Incentive Stock Options under the Plan if the aggregate fair market value, on the date of grant, of the Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by that employee during any calendar year under the Plan and under any other incentive stock option plan (within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code) of the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company exceeds $100,000.
Limitation on Amount of Grants
(ii) . An Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan to an employee possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or of any parent or subsidiary of the Company only if the option price is at least 110 percent of the fair market value of the Common Stock subject to the option on the date it is granted, as described in paragraph 6(b)(iv), and the option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date it is granted.
Limitations on Grants to 10 Percent Shareholders
(iii) . Subject to paragraphs 6(a)(ii) and 6(b)(ii), Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall continue in effect for the period fixed by the Board of Directors, except that no Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date it is granted.
Duration of Options
 
(iv) . The option price per share shall be determined by the Board of Directors at the time of grant. Except as provided in paragraph 6(b)(ii), the option price shall not be less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the Common Stock covered by the Incentive Stock Option at the date the option is granted. The fair market value shall be the closing price of the Common Stock as reported in on the day preceding the date the option is granted, or if there has been no sale on that date, on the last preceding date on which a sale occurred, or such other value of the Common Stock as shall be specified by the Board of Directors.
Option Price
The Wall Street Journal
(v) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted on or after the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan.
Limitation on Time of Grant
(vi) . The Board of Directors may at any time without the consent of the optionee convert an Incentive Stock Option to a Non-Statutory Stock Option.
Conversion of Incentive Stock Options
(c) . Non-Statutory Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Non-Statutory Stock Options
(i) . The option price for Non-Statutory Stock Options shall be determined by the Board of Directors at the time of grant and may be any amount determined by the Board of Directors.
Option Price
(ii) . Non-Statutory Stock Options granted under the Plan shall continue in effect for the period fixed by the Board of Directors.
Duration of Options
7. . The Board of Directors may award shares under the Plan as stock bonuses. Shares awarded as a bonus shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions determined by the Board of Directors. The restrictions may include restrictions concerning transferability and forfeiture of the shares awarded, together with such other restrictions as may be determined by the Board of Directors. If shares are subject to forfeiture, all dividends or other distributions paid by the Company with respect to the shares shall be retained by the Company until the shares are no longer subject to forfeiture, at which time all accumulated amounts shall be paid to the recipient. The Board of Directors may require the recipient to sign an agreement as a condition of the award, but may not require the recipient to pay any monetary consideration other than amounts necessary to satisfy tax withholding requirements. The agreement may contain any terms, conditions, restrictions, representations and warranties required by the Board of Directors. The certificates representing the shares awarded shall bear any legends required by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, shares awarded as a stock bonus to an Officer may not be sold until six months after the date of the award. The Company may require any recipient of a stock bonus to pay to the Company in cash upon demand amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state or local tax withholding requirements. If the recipient fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company may withhold that amount from
Stock Bonuses
 
other amounts payable by the Company to the recipient, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors, a recipient may deliver Common Stock to the Company to satisfy this withholding obligation. Upon the issuance of a stock bonus, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares issued, less the number of shares surrendered or withheld to satisfy withholding obligations.
8. . The Board of Directors may issue shares under the Plan for such consideration (including promissory notes and services) as determined by the Board of Directors. Shares issued under the Plan shall be subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions determined by the Board of Directors. The restrictions may include restrictions concerning transferability, repurchase by the Company and forfeiture of the shares issued, together with such other restrictions as may be determined by the Board of Directors. If shares are subject to forfeiture or repurchase by the Company, all dividends or other distributions paid by the Company with respect to the shares shall be retained by the Company until the shares are no longer subject to forfeiture or repurchase, at which time all accumulated amounts shall be paid to the recipient. All Common Stock issued pursuant to this paragraph 8 shall be subject to a purchase agreement, which shall be executed by the Company and the prospective recipient of the shares prior to the delivery of certificates representing such shares to the recipient. The purchase agreement may contain any terms, conditions, restrictions, representations and warranties required by the Board of Directors. The certificates representing the shares shall bear any legends required by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, shares issued under this paragraph 8 to an Officer may not be sold until six months after the shares are issued. The Company may require any purchaser of restricted stock to pay to the Company in cash upon demand amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state or local tax withholding requirements. If the purchaser fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company may withhold that amount from other amounts payable by the Company to the purchaser, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors, a purchaser may deliver Common Stock to the Company to satisfy this withholding obligation. Upon the issuance of restricted stock, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares issued, less the number of shares surrendered in payment of the restricted stock or surrendered or withheld to satisfy withholding obligations.
Restricted Stock
9. .
Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) Stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Plan by the Board of Directors, subject to such rules, terms, and conditions as the Board of Directors prescribes.
Grant.
(b)
Exercise.
(i) Each stock appreciation right shall entitle the holder, upon exercise, to receive from the Company in exchange therefor an amount equal in value to the excess of the fair market value on the date of exercise of one share of Common Stock of the Company over its fair market value on the date of grant (or, in the case of a
 
stock appreciation right granted in connection with an option, the excess of the fair market value of one share of Common Stock of the Company over the option price per share under the option to which the stock appreciation right relates), multiplied by the number of shares covered by the stock appreciation right or the option, or portion thereof, that is surrendered. No stock appreciation right shall be exercisable at a time that the amount determined under this subparagraph is negative. Payment by the Company upon exercise of a stock appreciation right may be made in Common Stock valued at fair market value, in cash, or partly in Common Stock and partly in cash, all as determined by the Board of Directors.
(ii) A stock appreciation right shall be exercisable only at the time or times established by the Board of Directors. If a stock appreciation right is granted in connection with an option, the following rules shall apply: (1) the stock appreciation right shall be exercisable only to the extent and on the same conditions that the related option could be exercised; (2) upon exercise of the stock appreciation right, the option or portion thereof to which the stock appreciation right relates terminates; and (3) upon exercise of the option, the related stock appreciation right or portion thereof terminates. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, no stock appreciation right granted to an Officer or director may be exercised during the first six months following the date it is granted.
(iii) The Board of Directors may withdraw any stock appreciation right granted under the Plan at any time and may impose any conditions upon the exercise of a stock appreciation right or adopt rules and regulations from time to time affecting the rights of holders of stock appreciation rights. Such rules and regulations may govern the right to exercise stock appreciation rights granted prior to adoption or amendment of such rules and regulations as well as stock appreciation rights granted thereafter.
(iv) For purposes of this paragraph 9, the fair market value of the Common Stock shall be the closing price of the Common Stock as reported in , or such other reported value of the Common Stock as shall be specified by the Board of Directors, on the trading day preceding the date the stock appreciation right is exercised.
The Wall Street Journal
(v) No fractional shares shall be issued upon exercise of a stock appreciation right. In lieu thereof, cash may be paid in an amount equal to the value of the fraction or, if the Board of Directors shall determine, the number of shares may be rounded downward to the next whole share.
(vi) Each stock appreciation right granted in connection with an Incentive Stock Option, and unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors with respect to a stock appreciation right granted to a person who is neither an Officer nor a director of the Company, each other stock appreciation right granted under the Plan by its terms shall be nonassignable and nontransferable by the holder, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the holder's domicile at the time of death, and each stock appreciation right by its terms shall be exercisable during the holder's lifetime only by the holder.
 
(vii) Each participant who has exercised a stock appreciation right shall, upon notification of the amount due, pay to the Company in cash amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. If the participant fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company may withhold that amount from other amounts payable by the Company to the participant including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors a participant may satisfy this obligation, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold from any shares to be issued upon the exercise that number of shares that would satisfy the withholding amount due or by delivering Common Stock to the Company to satisfy the withholding amount.
(viii) Upon the exercise of a stock appreciation right for shares, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares issued, less the number of shares surrendered or withheld to satisfy withholding obligations. Cash payments of stock appreciation rights shall not reduce the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan.
10. .
Cash Bonus Rights
(a) The Board of Directors may grant cash bonus rights under the Plan in connection with (i) options granted or previously granted, (ii) stock appreciation rights granted or previously granted, (iii) stock bonuses awarded or previously awarded and (iv) shares sold or previously sold under the Plan. Cash bonus rights will be subject to rules, terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors with respect to a cash bonus right granted to a person who is neither an Officer nor a director of the Company, each cash bonus right granted under the Plan by its terms shall be nonassignable and nontransferable by the holder, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the holder's domicile at the time of death. The payment of a cash bonus shall not reduce the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan.
Grant.
(b) A cash bonus right granted in connection with an option will entitle an optionee to a cash bonus when the related option is exercised (or terminates in connection with the exercise of a stock appreciation right related to the option) in whole or in part. If an optionee purchases shares upon exercise of an option and does not exercise a related stock appreciation right, the amount of the bonus shall be determined by multiplying the excess of the total fair market value of the shares to be acquired upon the exercise over the total option price for the shares by the applicable bonus percentage. If the optionee exercises a related stock appreciation right in connection with the termination of an option, the amount of the bonus shall be determined by multiplying the total fair market value of the shares and cash received pursuant to the exercise of the stock appreciation right by the applicable bonus percentage. The bonus percentage applicable to a bonus right shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Cash Bonus Rights in Connection With Options.
 
(c) A cash bonus right granted in connection with a stock bonus will entitle the recipient to a cash bonus payable when the stock bonus is awarded or restrictions, if any, to which the stock is subject lapse. If bonus stock awarded is subject to restrictions and is repurchased by the Company or forfeited by the holder, the cash bonus right granted in connection with the stock bonus shall terminate and may not be exercised. The amount and timing of payment of a cash bonus shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Cash Bonus Rights in Connection With Stock Bonus.
(d) A cash bonus right granted in connection with the purchase of stock pursuant to paragraph 8 will entitle the recipient to a cash bonus when the shares are purchased or restrictions, if any, to which the stock is subject lapse. Any cash bonus right granted in connection with shares purchased pursuant to paragraph 8 shall terminate and may not be exercised in the event the shares are repurchased by the Company or forfeited by the holder pursuant to applicable restrictions. The amount of any cash bonus to be awarded and timing of payment of a cash bonus shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Cash Bonus Rights in Connection With Stock Purchases.
(e) The Company shall withhold from any cash bonus paid pursuant to paragraph 10 the amount necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local withholding requirements.
Taxes.
11. . Awards under the Plan may be granted to such officers and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries residing in foreign jurisdictions as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time. The Board of Directors may adopt such supplements to the Plan as may be necessary to comply with the applicable laws of such foreign jurisdictions and to afford participants favorable treatment under such laws; provided, however, that no award shall be granted under any such supplement with terms which are more beneficial to the participants than the terms permitted by the Plan.
Foreign Qualified Grants
12.
Changes in Capital Structure.
(a) If the outstanding Common Stock of the Company is hereafter increased or decreased or changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities of the Company by reason of any stock split, combination of shares or dividend payable in shares, recapitalization or reclassification, appropriate adjustment shall be made by the Board of Directors in the number and kind of shares available for grants under the Plan. In addition, the Board of Directors shall make appropriate adjustment in the number and kind of shares as to which outstanding options and stock appreciation rights, or portions thereof then unexercised, shall be exercisable, so that the optionee's proportionate interest before and after the occurrence of the event is maintained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall have no obligation to effect any adjustment that would or might result in the issuance of fractional shares, and any fractional shares resulting from any adjustment may be disregarded or provided for in any manner determined by the Board of Directors. Any such adjustments made by the Board of Directors shall be conclusive.
Stock Splits; Stock Dividends
.
 
(b) In the event of a merger, consolidation or plan of exchange to which the Company is a party or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (each, a "Transaction"), the Board of Directors shall, in its sole discretion and to the extent possible under the structure of the Transaction, select one of the following alternatives for treating outstanding options and stock appreciation rights under the Plan:
Mergers, Reorganizations, Etc
.
(i) Outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms.
(ii) Outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall be converted into options to purchase stock in the corporation and stock appreciation rights with respect to stock in the corporation that is the surviving or acquiring corporation in the Transaction. The amount, type of securities subject thereto and exercise price of the converted options and stock appreciation rights shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company, taking into account the relative values of the companies involved in the Transaction and the exchange rate, if any, used in determining shares of the surviving corporation to be issued to holders of shares of the Company. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the converted options and stock appreciation rights shall be vested only to the extent that the vesting requirements relating to options and stock appreciation rights granted hereunder have been satisfied.
(iii) Holders of outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall be provided a 30-day period prior to the consummation of the Transaction during which outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable to the extent vested without any limit on exercisability and upon the expiration of such 30-day period, all unexercised options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately terminate. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the exercisability of options or stock appreciation rights so that they are exercisable in full during such 30-day period.
(c) In the event of the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Board of Directors may in its sole discretion (i) provide a 30-day period prior to such event during which optionees shall have the right to exercise options and stock appreciation rights in whole or in part without any limitation on exercisability and upon the expiration of which 30-day period all unexercised options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately terminate, or (ii) waive or modify any restriction on the options or stock appreciation rights.
Dissolution of the Company
.
13. The Board of Directors may also grant options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses and cash bonuses and issue restricted stock under the Plan having terms, conditions and provisions that vary from those specified in this Plan provided that any such awards are granted in substitution for, or in connection with
Corporate Mergers, Acquisitions, etc.
 
the assumption of, existing options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses, cash bonuses and restricted stock granted, awarded or issued by another corporation and assumed or otherwise agreed to be provided for by the Company pursuant to or by reason of a transaction involving a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization or liquidation to which the Company or a subsidiary is a party.
14. .
Acceleration in Certain Events
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, a special acceleration ("Special Acceleration") of all options and stock appreciation rights outstanding under the Plan shall occur and such options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately become exercisable in full at any time when any one of the following events has taken place:
(a) The shareholders of the Company approve one of the following ("Approved Transactions"):
(i) Any consolidation, merger or plan of exchange involving the Company ("Merger") pursuant to which Common Stock would be converted into cash; or
(ii) Any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(iii) The adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
(iv) Any merger, consolidation or plan of exchange which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) 50% or less of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or exchange; or
(v) Any merger, consolidation or plan of exchange effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which a person acquires more than 20% of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(b) A tender or exchange offer, other than one made by the Company, is made for Common Stock (or securities convertible into Common Stock) and such offer results in a portion of those securities being purchased and the offeror after the consummation of the offer is the beneficial owner (as determined pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), directly or indirectly, of more than 20 percent of the outstanding Common Stock (an "Offer"); or
 
(c) Any Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of more than 20 percent of the Company's outstanding Common Stock; or
(d) During any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted a majority of the Board of Directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the nomination or election of such new directors was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
All options and stock appreciation rights that are accelerated pursuant to this paragraph 14 shall terminate upon the dissolution of the Company or upon the consummation of any Merger pursuant to which Common Stock would be converted to cash. The terms used in this paragraph 14 and not defined elsewhere in the Plan shall have the same meanings as such terms have in the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder.
15. . The Board of Directors may at any time, and from time to time, modify or amend the Plan in such respects as it shall deem advisable because of changes in the law while the Plan is in effect or for any other reason. Except as provided in paragraphs 6(a)(iv), 9, 12 and 14, however, no change in an award already granted shall be made without the written consent of the holder of such award.
Amendment of Plan
16. . The obligations of the Company under the Plan are subject to the approval of state and federal authorities or agencies with jurisdiction in the matter. The Company will use its best efforts to take steps required by state or federal law or applicable regulations, including rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and any stock exchange on which the Company's shares may then be listed, in connection with the grants under the Plan. The foregoing notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated to issue or deliver Common Stock under the Plan if such issuance or delivery would violate applicable state or federal securities laws.
Approvals
17. . Nothing in the Plan or any award pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon any employee any right to be continued in the employment of the Company or any subsidiary or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary by whom such employee is employed to terminate such employee's employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, or to decrease such employee's compensation or benefits.
Employment Rights
18. . The recipient of any award under the Plan shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any Common Stock until the date of issue to the recipient of a stock certificate for such shares. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date occurs prior to the date such stock certificate is issued.
Rights as a Shareholder
 

Exhibit 10.3
1. . The purpose of this 1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") of Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") is to encourage selected employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who are in a position to influence the financial success of the Company or of its subsidiaries to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company and to give them added incentive to advance the interests of the Company, through an opportunity to share in its profits and growth.
Purpose
2. . Subject to adjustment as provided below and in paragraph 7, the shares to be offered under the Plan shall consist of Common Stock of the Company, and the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares. The shares issued under the Plan may be authorized and unissued shares or reacquired shares. If an option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan expires, terminates or is cancelled, the unissued shares subject to such option or stock appreciation right shall again be available under the Plan.
Shares Subject to the Plan
3. .
Effective Date and Duration of Plan
(a) The Plan shall become effective as of November 4, 1998. Options and stock appreciation rights may be granted at any time after the effective date and before termination of the Employee Plan.
Effective Date.
(b) The Plan shall continue in effect until all shares available for issuance under the Plan have been issued and all restrictions on such shares have lapsed. The Board of Directors may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time except with respect to options then outstanding under the Plan. Termination of the Plan shall not affect any outstanding options under the Plan.
Duration.
4. .
Administration
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company, which shall determine and designate from time to time the individuals to whom awards shall be made, the amount of the awards and the other terms and conditions of the awards. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may from time to time adopt and amend rules and regulations relating to administration of the Plan, advance the lapse of any waiting period, accelerate any exercise date, waive or modify any restriction applicable to shares (except those restrictions imposed by law) and make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board of Directors necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The interpretation and construction of the provisions of the Plan and related agreements by the Board of Directors shall be final and conclusive. The Board of Directors may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any related agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board of Directors.
(b) The Board of Directors may delegate to a committee of the Board of Directors or specified officers of the Company, or both (the "Committee") any or all authority for administration of the Plan. If authority is delegated to a Committee, all references to the Board of Directors in the Plan shall mean and relate to the Committee except (i) as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, (ii) that only the Board of Directors may amend or terminate the Plan as provided in paragraphs 3 and 10.
Committee.
(c) In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as officers or directors or as members of the Committee, the members of the Committee shall be indemnified by the Company against the reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan or any option granted thereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such Committee member is liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duties; provided that within sixty (60) days after institution of any such action, suit or proceeding a Committee member shall in writing offer the Company the opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same.
Indemnification of Committee.
5. . The Board of Directors may, from time to time, grant (i) non-statutory stock options as provided in paragraphs 6(a) and 6(c) and (ii) stock appreciation rights as provided in paragraphs 6(b) and 6(c). Any such awards may be made to employees (excluding employees who are officers or directors of the Company) the Board of Directors believes have made or will make an important contribution to the Company or any subsidiary of the Company. The Board of Directors shall select the individuals to whom awards shall be made and shall specify the action taken with respect to each individual to whom an award is made. At the discretion of the Board of Directors, an individual may be given an election to surrender an award in exchange for the grant of a new award.
Types of Awards; Eligibility
6. .
Stock Options; Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) .
General Rules Relating to Options
(i) . The Board of Directors may grant options under the Plan. With respect to each option grant, the Board of Directors at the time of grant shall determine the number of shares subject to the option, the option price, the period of the option and the time or times at which the option may be exercised. The option exercise price may be any amount determined by the Board of Directors. At the time of the grant of an option or at any time thereafter, the Board of Directors may provide that an optionee who exercised an option with Common Stock of the Company shall automatically receive a new option to purchase additional shares equal to the number of shares surrendered and may specify the terms and conditions of such new options.
Terms of Grant
(ii) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, each option granted under the Plan by its terms shall be nonassignable and nontransferable by the optionee, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the optionee's domicile at the time of death or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined under the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
Nontransferability
(b) .
Stock Appreciation Rights
(i) . Stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Plan by the Board of Directors, subject to such rules, terms, and conditions as the Board of Directors prescribes. With respect to any stock options granted after May 19, 2004, the Board of Directors may provide that at a later date stock appreciation rights may be granted in substitution for stock options granted under the Plan. With respect to each grant, the Board shall determine the number of shares subject to the stock appreciation right, the period of the stock appreciation right, and the time or times at which the stock appreciation right may be exercised. Stock appreciation rights shall continue in effect for the period fixed by the Board of Directors except that by its terms no stock appreciation right shall be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date it is granted.
Grant
(ii) . If a stock appreciation right is granted in connection with an option, the stock appreciation right shall be exercisable only to the extent and on the same conditions that the related option could be exercised. Upon exercise of a stock appreciation right, any option or portion thereof to which the stock appreciation right relates terminates. If a stock appreciation right is granted in connection with an option, upon exercise of the option, the stock appreciation right or portion thereof to which the grant relates terminates.
Stock Appreciation Rights Granted in Connection with Options
(iii) . Each stock appreciation right shall entitle the holder, upon exercise, to receive from the Company in exchange therefor an amount equal in value to the excess of the fair market value on the date of exercise of one share of Common Stock of the Company over its fair market value on the date of grant (or, in the case of a stock appreciation right granted in connection with an option, the option price per share under the option to which the stock appreciation right relates), multiplied by the number of shares covered by the stock appreciation right or the option, or portion thereof, that is surrendered. No stock appreciation right shall be exercisable at a time that the amount determined under this subparagraph is negative. Payment by the Company upon exercise of a stock appreciation right may be made in Common Stock valued at fair market value, in cash, or partly in Common Stock and partly in cash, all as determined by the Board of Directors. For this purpose, the fair market value of the Common Stock shall be the closing price of the Common Stock last reported before the time of exercise, or such other value of the Common Stock as specified by the Board of Directors.
Exercise
(iv) . No fractional shares shall be issued upon exercise of a stock appreciation right. In lieu thereof, cash may be paid in an amount equal to the value of the fraction or, if the Board of Directors shall determine, the number of shares may be rounded downward to the next whole share.
Fractional Shares
(v) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, each stock appreciation right granted under the Plan by its terms shall be nonassignable and nontransferable by the holder, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the holder's domicile at the time of death or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined under the Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
Nontransferability
(c)
Exercise of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
(i) . Except as provided in paragraphs 6(c)(ii)(A) through (F) or as determined by the Board of Directors, no option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan may be exercised unless at the time of such exercise the holder is employed by or in the service of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company and shall have been so employed or provided such service continuously since the date such option was granted. Absence on leave or on account of illness or disability under rules established by the Board of Directors shall not, however, be deemed an interruption of employment or service for this purpose. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, vesting of options and stock appreciation rights shall continue during a medical, family or military leave of absence, whether paid or unpaid, and vesting of options and stock appreciation rights shall be suspended during any other unpaid leave of absence. Except as provided in paragraphs 6(c)(ii), 7 and 9, options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Plan may be exercised from time to time over the period stated in each option or stock appreciation right in such amounts and at such times as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors, provided that options and stock appreciation rights shall not be exercised for fractional shares. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if the holder does not exercise an option or stock appreciation right in any one year for the full number of shares to which the holder is entitled in that year, the holder's rights shall be cumulative and the holder may acquire those shares in any subsequent year during the term of the option or stock appreciation right.
Exercise
(ii).
Termination of Employment or Service
(A) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, in the event the employment of the holder with the Company or a subsidiary terminates for any reason other than because of physical disability, death or retirement, as provided in subparagraphs 6(c)(ii) (B), (C) and (D), the option or stock appreciation right
General Rule
may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right or the expiration of six months after the date of such termination, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or stock appreciation right at the date of such termination.
(B) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, in the event of the termination of employment because of total disability, the option or stock appreciation right may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right or the expiration of six months after the date of such termination, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or stock appreciation right at the date of such termination. The term "total disability" means a mental or physical impairment which is expected to result in death or which has lasted or is expected to last for a continuous period of 12 months or more and which causes the optionee to be unable, in the opinion of the Company, to perform his or her duties as an employee of the Company and to be engaged in any substantial gainful activity. Total disability shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day after the Company has made a determination of total disability.
Termination Because of Total Disability
(C) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, in the event of the death of a holder while employed by the Company or a subsidiary, the option or stock appreciation right may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right or the expiration of 12 months after the date of death, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or stock appreciation right at the date of death and only by the person or persons to whom such holder's rights under the option or stock appreciation right shall pass by the holder's will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of domicile at the time of death.
Termination Because of Death
(D) . In the event the employment of a holder by the Company or by any subsidiary of the Company is terminated by retirement at normal retirement age as defined under the provisions of the Company's Retirement Plan or under conditions of bona fide early retirement, any option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan may be exercised at any time prior to its expiration date or the expiration of twelve months after the date of such termination of employment, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or the stock appreciation right on the date of such termination.
Termination Upon Retirement at Normal Retirement Age or at Bona Fide Early Retirement
(E) . The Board of Directors, at the time of grant or at any time thereafter, may extend the exercise periods specified in subparts (A) through (D) above for any length of time not longer than the original expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right, and may increase the portion of an option or stock appreciation right that is exercisable, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may determine.
Amendment of Exercise Period Applicable to Termination
(F) . To the extent that the option or stock appreciation right of any deceased holder or of any holder whose employment terminates is not exercised within the applicable period, all further rights to purchase shares pursuant to such option or stock appreciation right shall cease and terminate.
Failure to Exercise Option or Stock Appreciation Right
(iii) Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, shares may be acquired pursuant to an option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan only upon receipt by the Company of notice in writing from the holder of the holder's intention to exercise, specifying the date the option or stock appreciation right being exercised was granted, the number of shares the holder desires to acquire under the option or stock appreciation right, and the date on which the holder desires to complete the transaction, and, if required in order to comply with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, containing a representation that it is the holder's present intention to acquire the shares for investment and not with a view to distribution. Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, on or before the date specified for completion of the purchase of shares pursuant to an option exercise, the optionee must have paid the Company the full purchase price of such shares in cash (including, with the consent of the Board of Directors, cash that may be the proceeds of a loan from the Company) or, with the consent of the Board of Directors, in whole or in part, in Common Stock of the Company valued at fair market value, restricted stock, promissory notes and other forms of consideration. The fair market value of Common Stock provided in payment of the purchase price shall be the closing price of the Common Stock as reported in on the trading day preceding the date the option is exercised, or such other reported value of the Common Stock as shall be specified by the Board of Directors. No shares shall be issued until full payment for the shares has been made. With the consent of the Board of Directors, an optionee may request the Company to apply automatically the shares to be received upon the exercise of a portion of a stock option (even though stock certificates have not yet been issued) to satisfy the purchase price for additional portions of the option.
Acquisition of Shares.
The Wall Street Journal
(iv) . Each holder who has exercised an option or stock appreciation right shall immediately upon notification of the amount due, if any, pay to the Company in cash amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. If additional withholding is or becomes required beyond any amount deposited before delivery of the certificates, the holder shall pay such amount to the Company on demand. If the holder fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company may withhold that amount from other amounts payable by the Company to the holder, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors a holder may satisfy this obligation, in whole or in part, by having the Company withhold from the shares to be issued upon the exercise that number of shares that would satisfy the withholding amount due or by delivering to the Company Common Stock; provided, however, that the number of shares so withheld or delivered in connection with an option exercise shall not exceed the minimum amount necessary to satisfy the withholding obligation.
Tax Withholding
(v) . Upon the exercise of an option, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares issued upon exercise of the option or stock appreciation right.
Reduction of Reserved Shares
7.
Changes in Capital Structure.
(a) If the outstanding Common Stock of the Company is hereafter increased or decreased or changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities of the Company by reason of any stock split, combination of shares or dividend payable in shares, recapitalization or reclassification, appropriate adjustment shall be made by the Board of Directors in the number and kind of shares available for grants under the Plan. In addition, the Board of Directors shall make appropriate adjustment in the number and kind of shares as to which outstanding options and stock appreciation rights, or portions thereof then unexercised, shall be exercisable, so that the holder's proportionate interest before and after the occurrence of the event is maintained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall have no obligation to effect any adjustment that would or might result in the issuance of fractional shares, and any fractional shares resulting from any adjustment may be disregarded or provided for in any manner determined by the Board of Directors. Any such adjustments made by the Board of Directors shall be conclusive.
Stock Splits; Stock Dividends
.
(b) In the event of a merger, consolidation or plan of exchange to which the Company is a party or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (each, a "Transaction"), the Board of Directors shall, in its sole discretion and to the extent possible under the structure of the Transaction, select one of the following alternatives for treating outstanding options and stock appreciation rights under the Plan:
Mergers, Reorganizations, Etc
.
(i) Outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms.
(ii) Outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall be converted into options to purchase stock in the corporation that is the surviving or acquiring corporation in the Transaction. The amount, type of securities subject thereto and exercise price of the converted options and stock appreciation rights shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company, taking into account the relative values of the companies involved in the Transaction and the exchange rate, if any, used in determining shares of the surviving corporation to be issued to holders of shares of the Company. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the converted options and stock appreciation rights shall be vested only to the extent that the vesting requirements relating to options granted hereunder have been satisfied.
(iii) Holders of outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall be provided a 30-day period prior to the consummation of the Transaction during which outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall be exercisable to the extent vested
without any limit on exercisability and upon the expiration of such 30-day period, all unexercised options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately terminate. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the exercisability of options and stock appreciation rights so that they are exercisable in full during such 30-day period.
(c) In the event of the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Board of Directors may in its sole discretion (i) provide a 30-day period prior to such event during which holders shall have the right to exercise options and stock appreciation rights in whole or in part without any limitation on exercisability and upon the expiration of which 30-day period all unexercised options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately terminate, or (ii) waive or modify any restriction on the options and stock appreciation rights.
Dissolution of the Company
.
8. The Board of Directors may also grant options and stock appreciation rights under the Plan having terms, conditions and provisions that vary from those specified in this Plan, provided that any such awards are granted in substitution for, or in connection with the assumption of, existing options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses, cash bonuses and restricted stock granted, awarded or issued by another corporation and assumed or otherwise agreed to be provided for by the Company pursuant to or by reason of a transaction involving a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization or liquidation to which the Company or a subsidiary is a party.
Corporate Mergers, Acquisitions, etc.
9. .
Acceleration in Certain Events
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, a special acceleration ("Special Acceleration") of all options and stock appreciation rights outstanding under the Plan shall occur and such options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately become exercisable in full at any time when any one of the following events has taken place:
(a) The shareholders of the Company approve one of the following ("Approved Transactions"):
(i) Any consolidation, merger or plan of exchange involving the Company ("Merger") pursuant to which Common Stock would be converted into cash; or
(ii) Any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
(iii) The adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
(iv) Any merger, consolidation or plan of exchange which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) 50% or less of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or exchange; or
(v) Any merger, consolidation or plan of exchange effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which a person acquires more than 20% of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(b) A tender or exchange offer, other than one made by the Company, is made for Common Stock (or securities convertible into Common Stock) and such offer results in a portion of those securities being purchased and the offeror after the consummation of the offer is the beneficial owner (as determined pursuant to Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), directly or indirectly, of more than 20 percent of the outstanding Common Stock (an "Offer"); or
(c) Any Person is or becomes the beneficial owner of more than 20 percent of the Company's outstanding Common Stock; or
(d) During any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted a majority of the Board of Directors cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the nomination or election of such new directors was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period.
All options and stock appreciation rights that are accelerated pursuant to this paragraph 9 shall terminate upon the dissolution of the Company or upon the consummation of any Merger pursuant to which Common Stock would be converted to cash. The terms used in this paragraph 9 and not defined elsewhere in the Plan shall have the same meanings as such terms have in the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder.
10. . The Board of Directors may at any time, and from time to time, modify or amend the Plan in such respects as it shall deem advisable because of changes in the law while the Plan is in effect or for any other reason. Except as provided in paragraphs 6(b), 6(c)(ii), 7 and 9, however, no change in an award already granted shall be made without the written consent of the holder of such award.
Amendment of Plan
11. . The obligations of the Company under the Plan are subject to the approval of state and federal authorities or agencies with jurisdiction in the matter. The Company will use its best efforts to take steps required by state or federal law or applicable regulations, including rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and any stock exchange on which the Company's shares may then be listed, in connection with the grants under the Plan. The foregoing notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated to issue or deliver Common Stock under the Plan if such issuance or delivery would violate applicable state or federal securities laws.
Approvals
12. . Nothing in the Plan or any award pursuant to the Plan shall (i) confer upon any employee any right to be continued in the employment of the Company or any subsidiary or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary by whom such employee is employed to terminate such employee's employment at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, or to decrease such employee's compensation or benefits or (ii) confer upon any person engaged by the Company any right to be retained or employed by the Company or to the continuation, extension, renewal or modification of any compensation, contract or arrangement with or by the Company.
Employment and Service Rights
13. . The recipient of any award under the Plan shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any Common Stock until the date of issue to the recipient of a stock certificate for such shares. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date occurs prior to the date such stock certificate is issued.
Rights as a Shareholder
Adopted: February 3, 1999
As Amended: November 12, 2002
As Amended: May 19, 2004
As Amended: November 14, 2007


