FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20080815132858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b), (c) On August 12, 2008 and consistent with the events previously reported in the Form 8-K filed May 28, 2008, (i) William D. Larsson resigned from the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") and (ii) the Company's Board of Directors appointed Shawn Hagel as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Ms. Hagel, 43, was elected a Vice President of the Company in 2000. She had served as the Company's Vice PresidentFinance since April 2008, and from 1997 to that date Ms. Hagel was the Company's Corporate Controller.
(e) On August 12, 2008, at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "2008 Annual Meeting") of the Company, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the Company's 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended, the "Amended 2001 Plan"). The amendments are described in the Company's proxy statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 1, 2008. That summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended 2001 Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. . The purpose of this 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to enable Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company") to attract and retain the services of (i) selected employees, officers and directors of the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company and (ii) selected nonemployee agents, consultants, advisers and independent contractors of the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company. For purposes of this Plan, a person is considered to be employed by or in the service of the Company if the person is employed by or in the service of any entity (the "Employer") that is either the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company. As used in this Section 1, the term "subsidiary" shall include corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships or other entities directly or indirectly controlled by the Company.
Purpose
2. . Subject to adjustment as provided below and in Section 10, the shares to be offered under the Plan shall consist of Common Stock of the Company, and the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be 10,273,682 shares,
Shares Subject to the Plan
*
plus the number of shares subject to outstanding stock options as of May 30, 2008 under the Company's 1999 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan that expire or terminate after May 30, 2008 and on or before May 30, 2018 without being exercised. Any shares granted as options or stock appreciation rights are counted against this limit as one share for every one share granted. Any shares granted as awards other than options or stock appreciation rights are counted against this limit as two shares for every one share granted. If an option, stock appreciation right or Performance-Based Award (as defined in Section 9 below) granted under the Plan expires, terminates or is canceled, the unissued shares subject to that option, stock appreciation right or Performance-Based Award shall again be available under the Plan. If shares awarded as a bonus pursuant to Section 7 or sold pursuant to Section 8 under the Plan are forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, the number of shares forfeited or repurchased (multiplied by two) shall again be available under the Plan. If restricted stock units awarded under Section 8 are cancelled or forfeited, the number of shares of Common Stock deliverable in connection with such restricted stock units (multiplied by two) shall again be available under the Plan.
3. .
Effective Date and Duration of Plan
3.1 The Plan shall become effective as of May 24, 2001. No Incentive Stock Option (as defined in Section 5 below) granted under the Plan shall become exercisable and no payments shall be made under a Performance-Based Award, however, until the Plan is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares of Common Stock represented at a shareholders meeting at which a quorum is present or by means of consent resolutions, and the exercise of any Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan before approval shall be conditioned on and subject to that approval. Subject to this limitation, options, stock appreciation rights and Performance-Based Awards may be granted and shares may be awarded as bonuses or sold under the Plan at any time after the effective date and before termination of the Plan.
Effective Date.
3.2 The Plan shall continue in effect until all shares available for issuance under the Plan have been issued and all restrictions on the shares have lapsed. The Board of Directors may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time except with respect to options and shares subject to restrictions then outstanding under the Plan. Termination shall not affect any outstanding awards or any right of the Company to repurchase shares or the forfeitability of shares issued under the Plan.
Duration.
 
 
  3,000,000 original shares (adjusted for 2-for-1 stock split effected on September 9, 2005)
  5,000,000 new shares
shares available under the 1999 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
  2,273,682
10,273,682
4. .
Administration
4.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company, which shall determine and designate the individuals to whom awards shall be made, the amount of the awards and the other terms and conditions of the awards. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors may adopt and amend rules and regulations relating to administration of the Plan, advance the lapse of any waiting period, accelerate any exercise date, waive or modify any restriction applicable to shares (except those restrictions imposed by law) and make all other determinations in the judgment of the Board of Directors necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The interpretation and construction of the provisions of the Plan and related agreements by the Board of Directors shall be final and conclusive. The Board of Directors may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any related agreement in the manner and to the extent it deems expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and the Board of Directors shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Board of Directors.
4.2 The Board of Directors may delegate to any committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") any or all authority for administration of the Plan. Authority to make discretionary awards to non-employee directors of the Company shall be delegated to a Committee comprised entirely of independent directors. If authority is delegated to the Committee, all references to the Board of Directors in the Plan shall mean and relate to the Committee, except (i) as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors and (ii) that only the Board of Directors may amend or terminate the Plan as provided in Sections 3 and 11.
Committee.
5.
Awards.
5.1 The Board of Directors may, from time to time, take the following actions, separately or in combination, under the Plan: (i) grant Incentive Stock Options, as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), as provided in Sections 6.1 and 6.2; (ii) grant options other than Incentive Stock Options ("Non-Statutory Stock Options") as provided in Sections 6.1 and 6.3; (iii) grant stock appreciation rights as provided in Section 6.4; (iv) award stock bonuses as provided in Section 7; (v) issue shares subject to restrictions as provided in Section 8.1; (vi) grant restricted stock units as provided in Section 8.2; and (vii) award Performance-Based Awards as provided in Section 9. Awards may be made to employees, including employees who are officers or directors, and to other individuals described in Section 1 selected by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that only employees of the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company (as defined in subsections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code) are eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options under the Plan. The Board of Directors shall select the individuals to whom awards shall be made and shall specify the action taken with respect to each individual to whom an award is made. At the discretion of the Board of Directors and except as provided in Section 5.2, an individual may be given an election to surrender an award in exchange for the grant of a new award. No employee may be granted options or stock appreciation rights for more than an aggregate of 1,000,000
Types of Awards, Eligibility, Limitations.
2
shares of Common Stock in the calendar year in which the employee is hired or 600,000
shares of Common Stock in any other calendar year.
5.2 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the Company shall not engage in any repricing of options granted under the Plan without further shareholder approval. For this purpose, the term "repricing" shall mean any of the following or any other action that has the same effect: (i) lowering the exercise price of an option after it is granted (except in accordance with Section 10), (ii) buying-out an outstanding option at a time when its exercise price exceeds the fair market value of the underlying stock for cash or shares, (iii) any other action that is treated as a repricing under generally accepted accounting principles, or (iv) canceling an option at a time when its exercise price exceeds the fair market value of the underlying stock in exchange for another option, restricted stock, or other equity of the Company, unless the cancellation and exchange occurs in connection with a merger, acquisition, spin-off, or similar corporate transaction
No Repricing of Options
.
 
 
 
6. .
Stock Options; Stock Appreciation Rights
6.1
General Rules Relating to Options.
6.1-1 . The Board of Directors may grant options under the Plan. With respect to each option grant, the Board of Directors shall determine the number of shares subject to the option, the exercise price, the period of the option, the time or times at which the option may be exercised and whether the option is an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Statutory Stock Option.
Terms of Grant
6.1-2 . Each Incentive Stock Option and, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, each other option granted under the Plan by its terms (i) shall be nonassignable and nontransferable by the optionee, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the optionee's domicile at the time of death, and (ii) during the optionee's lifetime, shall be exercisable only by the optionee.
Nontransferability
6.1-3 . Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, on or before the date specified for completion of the purchase of shares pursuant to an option exercise, the optionee must pay the Company the full purchase price of those shares in cash or by check or, with the consent of the Board of Directors, in whole or in part, in Common Stock of the Company valued at fair market value, restricted stock or other contingent awards denominated in either stock or cash, promissory notes and other forms of consideration. The fair market value of Common Stock provided in payment of the purchase price shall be the closing price of the Common Stock last reported before the time payment in Common Stock is made or, if earlier, committed to be made, if the Common Stock is publicly traded, or another value of the Common Stock as specified by the Board of Directors. No shares shall be issued until full payment for the shares has been made, including all amounts owed for tax withholding. With the consent of the Board of Directors, an optionee may request the Company to apply automatically the shares to be received upon the exercise of a portion of a stock option (even though stock certificates have not yet been issued) to satisfy the purchase price for additional portions of the option.
Payment on Exercise
6.1-4 Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if an employee of the Company or any parent or subsidiary of the Company is a non-exempt employee subject to the overtime compensation provisions of Section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act (the "FLSA"), any option granted to that employee shall be subject to the following restrictions: (i) the option price shall be at least 100 percent of the fair market value, as described in Section 6.3-1, of the Common Stock subject to the option on the date it is granted; and (ii) the option shall not be exercisable until at least six months after the date it is granted; provided, however, that this six-month restriction on exercisability will cease to apply if the employee dies, becomes disabled or retires, there is a change in ownership of the Company, or in other circumstances permitted by regulation, all as prescribed in Section 7(e)(8)(B) of the FLSA.
Limitations on Grants to Non-Exempt Employees.
6.2 . Incentive Stock Options shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
Incentive Stock Options
6.2-1 . If the aggregate fair market value of stock (determined as of the date the option is granted) for which Incentive Stock Options granted under this Plan (and any other stock incentive plan of the Company or its parent or subsidiary corporations, as defined in subsections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code) are exercisable for the first time by an employee during any calendar year exceeds $100,000, the portion of the option or options not exceeding $100,000, to the extent of whole shares, will be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and the remaining portion of the option or options will be treated as a Non-Statutory Stock Option. The preceding sentence will be applied by taking options into account in the order in which they were granted. If, under the $100,000 limitation, a portion of an option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option and the remaining portion of the option is treated as a Non-Statutory Stock Option, unless the optionee designates otherwise at the time of exercise, the optionee's exercise of all or a portion of the option will be treated as the exercise of the Incentive Stock Option portion of the option to the full extent permitted under the
Limitation on Amount of Grants
 
$100,000 limitation. If an optionee exercises an option that is treated as in part an Incentive Stock Option and in part a Non-Statutory Stock Option, the Company will designate the portion of the stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of the Incentive Stock Option portion as Incentive Stock Option stock by issuing a separate certificate for that portion of the stock and identifying the certificate as Incentive Stock Option stock in its stock records.
6.2-2 . An Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan to an employee possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any parent or subsidiary (as defined in subsections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code) only if the option price is at least 110 percent of the fair market value, as described in Section 6.2-4, of the Common Stock subject to the option on the date it is granted and the option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date it is granted.
Limitations on Grants to 10 Percent Shareholders
6.2-3 . Subject to Sections 6.5-1, 6.5-2 and 6.2-2, Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan shall continue in effect for the period fixed by the Board of Directors, except that by its terms no Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date it is granted.
Duration of Options
6.2-4 . The option price per share shall be determined by the Board of Directors at the time of grant. Except as provided in Section 6.2-2, the option price shall not be less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the Common Stock covered by the Incentive Stock Option at the date the option is granted. The fair market value shall be the closing price of the Common Stock last reported before the time the option is granted, if the stock is publicly traded, or another value of the Common Stock as specified by the Board of Directors.
Option Price
6.2-5 . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted on or after the tenth anniversary of the last action by the Board of Directors adopting the Plan or approving an increase in the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan, which action was subsequently approved within 12 months by the shareholders.
Limitation on Time of Grant
6.2-6 . If within two years after an Incentive Stock Option is granted or within 12 months after an Incentive Stock Option is exercised, the optionee sells or otherwise disposes of Common Stock acquired on exercise of the Option, the optionee shall within 30 days of the sale or disposition notify the Company in writing of (i) the date of the sale or disposition, (ii) the amount realized on the sale or disposition and (iii) the nature of the disposition (e.g., sale, gift, etc.).
Early Dispositions
6.3 . Non-Statutory Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions, in addition to those set forth in Section 6.1 above:
Non-Statutory Stock Options
6.3-1 . The option price for Non-Statutory Stock Options shall be determined by the Board of Directors at the time of grant, and shall not be less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the Common Stock covered by the Non-Statutory Stock Option at the date the option is granted. The fair market value shall be the closing price of the Common Stock last reported before the time the option is granted, the lowest reported sale price on the date of grant, or another value of the Common Stock as specified by the Board of Directors.
Option Price
6.3-2 . Non-Statutory Stock Options granted under the Plan shall continue in effect for the period fixed by the Board of Directors, except that by its terms no Non-Statutory Stock Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date it is granted.
Duration of Options
6.4 .
Stock Appreciation Rights
6.4-1 . Stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Plan by the Board of Directors, subject to such rules, terms, and conditions as the Board of Directors prescribes. With respect to any stock options granted after May 19, 2004, the Board of Directors may provide that at a later date stock
Grant
 
appreciation rights may be granted in substitution for stock options granted under the Plan. With respect to each grant, the Board shall determine the number of shares subject to the stock appreciation right, the period of the stock appreciation right, and the time or times at which the stock appreciation right may be exercised. Stock appreciation rights shall continue in effect for the period fixed by the Board of Directors except that by its terms no stock appreciation right shall be exercisable after the expiration of 10 years from the date it is granted.
6.4-2 If a stock appreciation right is granted in connection with an option, the stock appreciation right shall be exercisable only to the extent and on the same conditions that the related option could be exercised. Upon exercise of a stock appreciation right, any option or portion thereof to which the stock appreciation right relates terminates. If a stock appreciation right is granted in connection with an option, upon exercise of the option, the stock appreciation right or portion thereof to which the grant relates terminates.
Stock Appreciation Rights Granted in Connection with Options
.
6.4-3 . Each stock appreciation right shall entitle the holder, upon exercise, to receive from the Company in exchange therefor an amount equal in value to the excess of the fair market value on the date of exercise of one share of Common Stock of the Company over its fair market value on the date of grant (or, in the case of a stock appreciation right granted in connection with an option, the option price per share under the option to which the stock appreciation right relates), multiplied by the number of shares covered by the stock appreciation right or the option, or portion thereof, that is surrendered. No stock appreciation right shall be exercisable at a time that the amount determined under this subparagraph is negative. Payment by the Company upon exercise of a stock appreciation right shall be made in Common Stock valued at fair market value. For this purpose, the fair market value of the Common Stock shall be the closing price of the Common Stock last reported before the time of exercise, or such other value of the Common Stock as specified by the Board of Directors.
Exercise
6.4-4 . No fractional shares shall be issued upon exercise of a stock appreciation right. In lieu thereof, cash may be paid in an amount equal to the value of the fraction or, if the Board of Directors shall determine, the number of shares may be rounded downward to the next whole share.
Fractional Shares
6.4-5 Each stock appreciation right granted in connection with an Incentive Stock Option and, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, each other stock appreciation right granted under the Plan by its terms shall be nonassignable and nontransferable by the holder, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the holder's domicile at the time of death, and each stock appreciation right by its terms shall be exercisable during the holder's lifetime only by the holder.
Nontransferability.
6.5
Exercise of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
6.5-1 . Except as provided in Section 6.5-2 or as determined by the Board of Directors, no option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan may be exercised unless at the time of exercise the holder is employed by or in the service of the Company and shall have been so employed or provided such service continuously since the date the option or stock appreciation right was granted. Except as provided in Sections 6.5-2 and 10, options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Plan may be exercised from time to time over the period stated in each option or stock appreciation right in amounts and at times prescribed by the Board of Directors, provided that options and stock appreciation rights may not be exercised for fractional shares. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if a holder does not exercise an option or stock appreciation right in any one year for the full number of shares to which the holder is entitled in that year, the holder's rights shall be cumulative and the holder may acquire those shares in any subsequent year during the term of the option or stock appreciation right.
Exercise
 
6.5-2 .
Termination of Employment or Service
6.5-2(a) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if a holder's employment or service with the Company terminates for any reason other than because of total disability, death or, in the case of Nonstatutory Stock Options or stock appreciation rights, bona fide early retirement, as provided in Sections 6.5-2(b), (c) and (d), his or her option or stock appreciation right may be exercised at any time before the expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right or the expiration of 3 months (6 months in the case of Nonstatutory Stock Options or stock appreciation rights) after the date of termination, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or stock appreciation right at the date of termination.
General Rule
6.5-2(b) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if a holder's employment or service with the Company terminates because of total disability, his or her option or stock appreciation right may be exercised at any time before the expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right or before the date 3 months after the date of termination (6 months in the case of Nonstatutory Stock Options or stock appreciation rights), whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or stock appreciation right at the date of termination. The term "total disability" means a medically determinable mental or physical impairment that is expected to result in death or has lasted or is expected to last for a continuous period of 12 months or more and that, in the opinion of the Company and two independent physicians, causes the holder to be unable to perform his or her duties as an employee, director, officer or consultant of the Employer and unable to be engaged in any substantial gainful activity. Total disability shall be deemed to have occurred on the first day after the two independent physicians have furnished their written opinion of total disability to the Company and the Company has reached an opinion of total disability.
Termination Because of Total Disability
6.5-2(c) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, if a holder dies while employed by or providing service to the Company, his or her option or stock appreciation right may be exercised at any time before the expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right or before the date 12 months after the date of death, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or stock appreciation right at the date of death and only by the person or persons to whom the holder's rights under the option or stock appreciation right shall pass by the holder's will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of domicile at the time of death.
Termination Because of Death
6.5-2(d) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, in the event the employment of a holder by the Company or by any subsidiary of the Company is terminated by retirement at normal retirement age as defined under the provisions of the Company's Retirement Plan or under conditions of bona fide early retirement, any Non-Statutory Stock Option or stock appreciation right may be exercised at any time prior to its expiration date or the expiration of twelve months after the date of such termination of employment, whichever is the shorter period, but only if and to the extent the holder was entitled to exercise the option or stock appreciation right on the date of such termination.
Termination Upon Retirement at Normal Retirement Age or at Bona Fide early Retirement
6.5-2(e) . The Board of Directors may at any time extend the 3-month, 6-month and 12-month exercise periods any length of time not longer than the original expiration date of the option or stock appreciation right. The Board of Directors may at any time increase the portion of an option or stock appreciation right that is exercisable, subject to terms and conditions determined by the Board of Directors.
Amendment of Exercise Period Applicable to Termination
6.5-2(f) . To the extent that the option or stock appreciation right of any deceased holder or any holder whose employment or service terminates is not exercised within the applicable period, all further rights to purchase shares pursuant to the option or stock appreciation right shall cease and terminate.
Failure to Exercise Option or Stock Appreciation Right
6.5-2(g) Absence on leave approved by the Employer or on account of illness or disability shall not be deemed a termination or interruption of employment or service. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, vesting of options and stock appreciation rights shall continue during a medical, family or military leave of absence, whether paid or unpaid, and vesting of options and stock appreciation rights shall be suspended during any other unpaid leave of absence.
Leave of Absence.
 
6.5-3 . Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, shares may be acquired pursuant to an option or stock appreciation right granted under the Plan only upon the Company's receipt of written notice from the holder of the holder's binding commitment to purchase shares, specifying the number of shares the holder desires to acquire under the option or stock appreciation right and the date on which the holder agrees to complete the transaction, and, if required to comply with the Securities Act of 1933, containing a representation that it is the holder's intention to acquire the shares for investment and not with a view to distribution.
Notice of Exercise
6.5-4 . Each holder who has exercised an option or stock appreciation right shall, immediately upon notification of the amount due, if any, pay to the Company in cash or by check amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. If additional withholding is or becomes required (as a result of exercise of an option or stock appreciation right or as a result of disposition of shares acquired pursuant to exercise of an option or stock appreciation right) beyond any amount deposited before delivery of the certificates, the holder shall pay such amount, in cash or by check, to the Company on demand. If the holder fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company or the Employer may withhold that amount from other amounts payable to the holder, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors, a holder may satisfy this obligation, in whole or in part, by instructing the Company to withhold from the shares to be issued upon exercise or by delivering to the Company other shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the number of shares so withheld or delivered in connection with an option exercise shall not exceed the minimum amount necessary to satisfy the required withholding obligation.
Tax Withholding
6.5-5 . Upon the exercise of an option, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the number of shares issued upon exercise of the option. Upon the exercise of a stock appreciation right, all of the shares for which the stock appreciation right is exercised (that is, shares actually issued pursuant to a stock appreciation right, as well as the shares that represent payment of the exercise price) will cease to be available under the Plan. Shares used to pay any withholding taxes and the exercise price of an option will not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan.
Reduction of Reserved Shares
7. . The Board of Directors may award shares under the Plan as stock bonuses. Shares awarded as a bonus shall be subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions determined by the Board of Directors. The restrictions may include restrictions concerning transferability and forfeiture of the shares awarded, together with any other restrictions determined by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may require the recipient to sign an agreement as a condition of the award, but may not require the recipient to pay any monetary consideration other than amounts necessary to satisfy tax withholding requirements. The agreement may contain any terms, conditions, restrictions, representations and warranties required by the Board of Directors. The certificates representing the shares awarded shall bear any legends required by the Board of Directors. The Company may require any recipient of a stock bonus to pay to the Company in cash or by check upon demand amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state or local tax withholding requirements. If the recipient fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company or the Employer may withhold that amount from other amounts payable to the recipient, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors, a recipient may satisfy this obligation, in whole or in part, by instructing the Company to withhold from any shares to be issued or by delivering to the Company other shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the number of shares so withheld or delivered shall not exceed the minimum amount necessary to satisfy the required withholding obligation. Upon the issuance of a stock bonus, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by two times the number of shares issued and by two times the number of shares withheld to satisfy withholding obligations.
Stock Bonuses
 
8. .
Restricted Stock; Restricted Stock Units
8.1 . The Board of Directors may issue shares under the Plan for any consideration (including promissory notes and services) determined by the Board of Directors. Shares issued under the Plan shall be subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions determined by the Board of Directors. The restrictions may include restrictions concerning transferability, repurchase by the Company and forfeiture of the shares issued, together with any other restrictions determined by the Board of Directors. All Common Stock issued pursuant to this Section 8 shall be subject to a purchase agreement, which shall be executed by the Company and the prospective purchaser of the shares before the delivery of certificates representing the shares to the purchaser. The purchase agreement may contain any terms, conditions, restrictions, representations and warranties required by the Board of Directors.
Restricted Stock
8.2 The Board of Directors may grant restricted stock units under the Plan, including restricted stock units or deferred stock units that provide for delivery of Common Stock, cash or property at a later date. Restricted stock units are awards valued in whole or part by reference to, or otherwise based on, shares of Common Stock, and may give the participant the right to receive Common Stock at a later delivery date. Restricted stock units may be granted for any consideration (including promissory notes and services) determined by the Board of Directors. Restricted stock unit awards may be paid in shares of Common Stock, cash or any other forms of property as the Board of Directors shall determine. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board of Directors shall determine the participants to whom awards shall be made, the number of shares to be granted pursuant to or by reference to such awards, the time or times at which Common Stock, cash or other property may be delivered pursuant to the restricted stock units, any provisions regarding deferral of delivery of the Common Stock, including deferrals, at the election of the participants, and all other terms, conditions and restrictions of the awards, including the effect, if any, on the awards of any dividends on the underlying stock. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, each restricted stock unit granted under the Plan, and all shares of Common Stock subject to such unit, by its terms shall, prior to the delivery date applicable to the award, be nonassignable and nontransferable by the participant, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution of the state or country of the participant's domicile at the date of death.
Restricted Stock Units
.
8.3 . The certificates representing shares of restricted stock or shares issued in connection with restricted stock units shall bear any legends required by the Board of Directors. The Company may require any participant receiving restricted stock or restricted stock units to pay to the Company in cash or by check upon demand amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state or local tax withholding requirements. If the participant fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company or the Employer may withhold that amount from other amounts payable to the participant, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors, a participant may satisfy this obligation, in whole or in part, by instructing the Company to withhold from any shares to be issued or by delivering to the Company other shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the number of shares so withheld or delivered shall not exceed the minimum amount necessary to satisfy the required withholding obligation. Upon the issuance of restricted stock or the issuance of stock in connection with restricted stock units, the number of shares reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by two times the number of shares issued and by two times the number of shares withheld to satisfy withholding obligations.
Other Provisions
9. . The Board of Directors may grant awards intended to qualify as qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations thereunder ("Performance-Based Awards"). Performance-Based Awards shall be denominated at the time of grant in Common Stock. Payment under a Performance-Based Award shall be made in Common Stock ("Performance Shares"). Performance-Based Awards shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Performance-Based Awards
9.1 . The Board of Directors shall determine the period of time for which a Performance-Based Award is made (the "Award Period").
Award Period
 
9.2 . The Board of Directors shall establish in writing objectives ("Performance Goals") that must be met by the Company or any subsidiary, division or other unit of the Company ("Business Unit") during the Award Period as a condition to payment being made under the Performance-Based Award. The Performance Goals for each award shall be one or more targeted levels of performance with respect to one or more of the following objective measures with respect to the Company or any Business Unit: net income, operating profit, operating profit after set-asides, gross margins, earnings per share, earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT"), earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), sales, total revenues, market share, cash flow, generation of free cash, operating working capital, working capital, retained earnings, stock price, total shareholder return, operating expense ratios, return on sales, return on equity, return on capital, return on net assets, return on investments, and inventory turns, in each case either before or after the effect of unplanned acquisitions, divestitures, changes in accounting method, restructuring charges, asset impairment charges, foreign currency translations or other specified non-recurring charges (as determined according to criteria pre-established by the Board of Directors). The Board of Directors shall also establish the number of Performance Shares to be issued under a Performance-Based Award if the Performance Goals are met or exceeded, including the fixing of a maximum payment (subject to Section 9.4). The Board of Directors may establish other restrictions to payment under a Performance-Based Award, such as a continued employment requirement, in addition to satisfaction of the Performance Goals. Some or all of the Performance Shares may be issued at the time of the award as restricted shares subject to forfeiture in whole or in part if Performance Goals or, if applicable, other restrictions are not satisfied.
Performance Goals and Payment
9.3 . During or after an Award Period, the performance of the Company or Business Unit, as applicable, during the period shall be measured against the Performance Goals. If the Performance Goals are not met, no payment shall be made under a Performance-Based Award. If the Performance Goals are met or exceeded, the Board of Directors shall certify that fact in writing and certify the number of Performance Shares earned or the amount of cash payment to be made under the terms of the Performance-Based Award.
Computation of Payment
9.4 . No participant may be granted in the calendar year in which the employee is hired Performance-Based Awards under which the maximum amount issuable is in excess of 500,000 shares of Common Stock or in any other calendar year Performance-Based Awards under which the maximum amount issuable is in excess of 300,000 shares of Common Stock.
Maximum Awards
9.5 . Each participant who has received Performance Shares shall, upon notification of the amount due, pay to the Company in cash or by check amounts necessary to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements. If the participant fails to pay the amount demanded, the Company or the Employer may withhold that amount from other amounts payable to the participant, including salary, subject to applicable law. With the consent of the Board of Directors, a participant may satisfy this obligation, in whole or in part, by instructing the Company to withhold from any shares to be issued or by delivering to the Company other shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that the number of shares so delivered or withheld shall not exceed the minimum amount necessary to satisfy the required withholding obligation.
Tax Withholding
9.6 . The number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by two times the number of shares issued upon payment of an award and by two times the number of shares withheld to satisfy withholding obligations.
Effect on Shares Available
10.
Changes in Capital Structure.
10.1 If the outstanding Common Stock of the Company is hereafter increased or decreased or changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities of the Company by reason of any stock split, combination of shares, dividend payable in shares, recapitalization or reclassification, appropriate adjustment shall be made by the Board of Directors in the number and kind of shares available for grants under the Plan and in all other share amounts set forth in the Plan. In addition, the Board of Directors shall make appropriate adjustment in the number and kind of shares as to which
Stock Splits, Stock Dividends
.
 
outstanding options and stock appreciation rights, or portions thereof then unexercised, shall be exercisable, so that the holder's proportionate interest before and after the occurrence of the event is maintained. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors shall have no obligation to effect any adjustment that would or might result in the issuance of fractional shares, and any fractional shares resulting from any adjustment may be disregarded or provided for in any manner determined by the Board of Directors. Any such adjustments made by the Board of Directors shall be conclusive.
10.2 In the event of a merger, consolidation, plan of exchange, acquisition of property or stock, split-up, split-off, spin-off, reorganization or liquidation to which the Company is a party or any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Company (each, a "Transaction"), the Board of Directors shall, in its sole discretion (i) make any adjustment to the number and kind of shares of stock deliverable upon any Transaction affecting the stock issuable in connection with any restricted stock units and (ii) to the extent possible under the structure of the Transaction, select one or more of the following alternatives for treating outstanding options and stock appreciation rights under the Plan:
Mergers, Reorganizations, Etc
.
10.2-1 Outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms.
10.2-2 Outstanding options and stock appreciation rights shall be converted into options and stock appreciation rights to purchase stock in one or more of the corporations, including the Company, that are the surviving or acquiring corporations in the Transaction. The amount, type of securities subject thereto and exercise price of the converted options and stock appreciation rights shall be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company, taking into account the relative values of the companies involved in the Transaction and the exchange rate, if any, used in determining shares of the surviving corporation(s) to be held by holders of shares of the Company following the Transaction. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the converted options and stock appreciation rights shall be vested only to the extent that the vesting requirements relating to options granted hereunder have been satisfied.
10.2-3 The Board of Directors shall provide a period of 30 days or less before the completion of the Transaction during which outstanding options and stock appreciation rights may be exercised to the extent then exercisable, and upon the expiration of that period, all unexercised options and stock appreciation rights shall immediately terminate. The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the exercisability of options and stock appreciation rights so that they are exercisable in full during that period.
10.3 In the event of the dissolution of the Company, options and stock appreciation rights shall be treated in accordance with Section 10.2-3.
Dissolution of the Company
.
10.4 The Board of Directors may also grant options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses and Performance-Based Awards and issue restricted stock and restricted stock units under the Plan with terms, conditions and provisions that vary from those specified in the Plan, provided that any such awards are granted in substitution for, or in connection with the assumption of, existing options, stock appreciation rights, stock bonuses, restricted stock, restricted stock units and Performance-Based Awards granted, awarded or issued by another corporation and assumed or otherwise agreed to be provided for by the Company pursuant to or by reason of a Transaction.
Rights Issued by Another Corporation
.
11. . The Board of Directors may at any time modify or amend the Plan in any respect. Except as provided in Sections 6.4 and 10 however, no change in an award already granted shall be made without the written consent of the holder of the award if the change would adversely affect the holder.
Amendment of the Plan
12. . The Company's obligations under the Plan are subject to the approval of state and federal authorities or agencies with jurisdiction in the matter. The Company will use its best efforts to take steps required by state or federal law or applicable regulations, including rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and any stock exchange on which the Company's shares may then be listed, in connection with the grants under the Plan. The foregoing notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated to issue or deliver Common Stock under the Plan if such issuance or delivery would violate state or federal securities laws.
Approvals
 
13. . Nothing in the Plan or any award pursuant to the Plan shall (i) confer upon any employee any right to be continued in the employment of an Employer or interfere in any way with the Employer's right to terminate the employee's employment at will at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, or to decrease the employee's compensation or benefits, or (ii) confer upon any person engaged by an Employer any right to be retained or employed by the Employer or to the continuation, extension, renewal or modification of any compensation, contract or arrangement with or by the Employer.
Employment and Service Rights
14. . The recipient of any award under the Plan shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock until the date the recipient becomes the holder of record of those shares. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date occurs before the date the recipient becomes the holder of record.
Rights as a Shareholder
15. . Awards under the Plan may be granted to such officers and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and such other persons described in paragraph 1 residing in foreign jurisdictions as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time. The Board of Directors may adopt such supplements to the Plan or establish sub-plans under this Plan as may be necessary to comply with the applicable laws of such foreign jurisdictions and to afford participants favorable treatment under such laws; provided, however, that no award shall be granted under any such supplement with terms which are more beneficial to the participants than the terms permitted by the Plan. Notwithstanding any supplemental or sub-plan created in response to the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, this Plan shall not be governed by the laws of such jurisdiction.
Foreign Qualified Grants
 


