FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20080528143312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On May 21, 2008, William D. Larsson, who is the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Precision Castparts Corp. (the "Company"), notified the Company that he expects to retire on December 31, 2008.
(c) On May 21, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors selected Shawn Hagel to succeed Mr. Larsson as Chief Financial Officer of the Company when Mr. Larsson transitions or retires from that position. Ms. Hagel, 42, has served as the Company's Vice PresidentFinance since April 2008, and from 1997 to that date she was the Company's Corporate Controller.
(d) On May 21, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors elected Lester L. Lyles as a director. Mr. Lyles was appointed to serve on the Audit Committee. In accordance with Oregon law, Mr. Lyles will stand for election by the Company's shareholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Lyles will receive compensation for his services in accordance with the Company's non-employee director compensation program, which is described in the Company's July 3, 2007 Proxy Statement.
(e) On May 22, 2008, the Company entered into an agreement with Mr. Larsson relating to his expected retirement. The Company has agreed to: (i) pay Mr. Larsson an additional supplemental retirement benefit of $3,000 per month; (ii) grant Mr. Larsson stock options in November 2008 as part of the Company's annual option grant program with provisions specific to Mr. Larsson's expected retirement, and modify the award agreements for Mr. Larsson's 2005 and 2006 stock option grants to contain similar provisions; and (iii) pay Mr. Larsson, on or before December 31, 2008, a prorated bonus for three-quarters of fiscal 2009. The agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
Also on May 21, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors approved a new executive bonus arrangement to reward the development, addition, retention and sharing of high potential employees among the Company's manufacturing plants. Substantially all of the participants in the Company's existing executive incentive plans will participate in the new bonus arrangement, including some or all of the named executive officers. Performance will be assessed by the CEO of the Company at fiscal year-end. Participants in fiscal year 2009 will be eligible to receive a 5 percent increase in any bonus otherwise payable to the participant under the applicable executive incentive plan if all objectives applicable to the participant under this new bonus arrangement are fully attained, or a lesser percentage if some but not all objectives are attained. In addition, the Board of Directors has determined that up to 5 percent of the bonus award otherwise payable to a participant under the executive incentive plan in which he or she participates will be conditioned on attainment of minimum objectives under this new bonus arrangement.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
Bill, I want to follow up on the conversations we have been having over the past few months about your desire to leave the Company before reaching age 65. We agree that you plan to retire from PCC on December 31, 2008. The provisions of this memorandum agreement will become effective upon approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
We have selected Shawn as your successor as Chief Financial Officer and appreciate that you have agreed to assist in the transition. As we have discussed, it may be appropriate for you to resign as an officer of the Company prior to December 31, 2008. Even if you resign as an officer before December 31, 2008, you would continue to be an employee until that date. As long as you remain an employee during this time, you will be eligible for all benefits to which you are now entitled and you will receive a prorated bonus for three-quarters of FY09 which shall be equal to 67.5% (3/4 of 90% target) of your $545,000 annual base pay, or $367,875. The prorated bonus for FY09 will be paid no later than December 31, 2008.
In recognition of your long service and your terminating employment on December 31, 2008 as described above, and as compensation for the noncompetition provisions below, the Company will pay you a supplemental retirement income benefit (the "SRIB") in the amount of $3,000 per month with a 100% continuation feature (100% J&S) for Debra as your surviving spouse. This supplemental retirement income benefit does not affect your benefit under the SERP or the PCC Retirement Plan. Details of the SRIB are contained in the attached Exhibit A.
You will continue to be eligible for stock option grants on a consistent basis with prior practice while you are an employee. The stock option agreement for the November 2008 grant will specify that if employment is terminated by retirement on or after December 31, 2008 (a) all outstanding options will become exercisable in full and (b) all outstanding options will remain exercisable for the remainder of their full ten year term. A copy of the Stock Option Agreement to be used in November 2008 is attached as Exhibit B.
With regard to currently outstanding stock options that were granted in November 2005 and 2006, the Company will modify the Stock Option Agreements related to these outstanding stock options to specify that if employment is terminated by retirement on or after December 31, 2008 all unvested options will become exercisable in full and remain exercisable for the remainder of their full ten year term, subject to the provisions of the Stock Option Agreements. A proposed letter accomplishing the foregoing is attached as Exhibits C.
The miscellaneous benefits that you currently receive will cease as of your retirement date. These include, for example but not by way of limitation, your Company leased automobile, club membership reimbursement, financial planning services, tax preparation assistance and Company paid life insurance.
In terms of your general employment status, you will remain an employee-at-will until you retire. We reserve the right to change any of the plans under which you may be covered in the future in accordance with the terms of the individual plans. In addition, changes in law may impact the benefits to which you are entitled in the future.
You said you were interested in the possibility of joining other boards of directors of public companies prior to your retirement date. This is okay with PCC, but it does highlight an important factor. In exchange for the benefits we are providing to you in connection with your early retirement, you agree to a five year non-compete, commencing upon the end of your employment with PCC. In this non-compete, you agree that you will not directly or indirectly own (as an asset or equity owner, except for holdings of up to 5% of the equity shares of a publicly traded company), manage, operate, join, control or work as an employee, officer, director, consultant or independent contractor in any business that engages in any of the businesses in which PCC operates as of the date you cease to be an employee. You agree that this non-compete is supported by valuable consideration and that it is reasonable and not unduly restrictive in light of your retirement goals, your possession of highly confidential and proprietary information (including trade secrets and customer information) and the special, unique and extraordinary services you have provided to PCC. You agree that you have had sufficient time to consult your own legal counsel regarding this provision.
Agreed and accepted this 22nd day of May, 2008
/s/ WILLIAM D. LARSSON
Bill Larsson


