FILE:PCP/PCP-8K-20111202191730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
  
November 30, 2011
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On November 30, 2011, Precision Castparts Corp. (the Company) entered into a Credit Agreement (the New Credit Agreement) with Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agents, and other lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively the Lenders). On the same day, the Company also terminated its prior Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. and the other lenders under such agreement (the Prior Credit Agreement). The New Credit Agreement consists of a five-year, $1.0 billion revolving credit facility (with a $500 million increase option, subject to approval of the Lenders) maturing during November, 2016, unless extended pursuant to two 364-day extension options (subject to approval of the Lenders). The New Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, events of default, and financial and other covenants.
The interest rate and facility fee under the New Credit Agreement will vary depending upon the Company's debt ratings.  The New Credit Agreement is not guaranteed by the Company's subsidiaries, although subsidiary guarantees may be required under the New Credit Agreement in the future if the Company incurs guaranteed debt outside of the New Credit Agreement.
The foregoing summary description of the New Credit Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the New Credit Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated by reference.
In connection with and at the time the Company entered into the New Credit Agreement on November 30, 2011, the Prior Credit Agreement (as defined and described in Item 1.01 above) originally scheduled to expire on May 16, 2012, was terminated.
(d) Exhibits
10.1    Credit Agreement, dated November 30, 2011, by and among Precision Castparts Corp., Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agents, and the other lenders from time to time party thereto.
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 10.1
Published CUSIP Number: ________________
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Dated as of November 30, 2011
among
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.,
as the Borrower,
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer,
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
and
CITIBANK, N.A.,
as Syndication Agents,
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK (USA),
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
and
PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
as Co-Documentation Agents,
and
The Other Lenders Party Hereto
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED,
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC,
and
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
as
Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
    
Page
i
\34414564.10
ii
\34414564.10
iii
\34414564.10
SCHEDULES
2.01    Commitments and Applicable Percentages
10.02    Administrative Agents Office; Certain Addresses for Notices
EXHIBITS
Form of
A    Committed Loan Notice
B-1    Bid Request
B-2    Competitive Bid
C    Swing Line Loan Notice
D    Note
E    Compliance Certificate
F    Assignment and Assumption
G    Guaranty
H    Letters of Credit Report
I    Opinion
iv
\34414564.10
CREDIT AGREEMENT
This
CREDIT AGREEMENT
(
Agreement
) is entered into as of November 30, 2011, among
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
, an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the 
Lenders
 and individually, a 
Lender
),
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
,
as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer,
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and
CITIBANK, N.A.
, as an L/C Issuer.
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
ARTICLE I.
DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS
1.01
    
Defined Terms
. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Absolute Rate
 means a fixed rate of interest expressed in multiples of 1/100
th
of one basis point.
Absolute Rate Loan
 means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate determined with reference to an Absolute Rate.
Administrative Agent
 means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agents Office
 means the Administrative Agents address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on
Schedule 10.02
, or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Questionnaire
 means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Affiliate
 means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Aggregate Commitments
 means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Agreement
 means this Credit Agreement.
Applicable Percentage
 means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lenders Commitment at such time, subject to adjustment as provided in
Section 2.18
. If the commitment
1
\34414564.10
of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to
Section 8.02
or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on
Schedule 2.01
or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Rate
 means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Debt Rating
 means, as of any date of determination, the rating as
determined by either S&P or Moodys (collectively, the 
Debt Ratings
) of the Borrowers non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt;
provided
that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest); (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply; (c) if the Borrower has only one Debt Rating, the Pricing Level that is one level lower than that of such Debt Rating shall apply; and (d) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 5 shall apply.
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the Debt Rating specified in the certificate delivered pursuant to
Section 4.01(a)(viii)
. Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement thereof and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
Approved Fund
 means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Arrangers
 means, collectively, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., each in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
2
\34414564.10
Assignee Group
 means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignment and Assumption
 means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by
Section 10.06(b)
), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of
Exhibit F
or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Audited Financial Statements
 means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended April 3, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Availability Period
 means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to
Section 2.07
, and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to
Section 8.02
.
Bank of America
 means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Base Rate
means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate
plus
1/2 of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its prime rate, and (c) the Eurodollar Rate
plus
1.00%. The prime rate is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of Americas costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate Committed Loan
 means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Loan
 means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Bid Borrowing
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Loans of the same Type from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Bid Loans as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the auction bidding procedures described in
Section 2.03
.
Bid Loan
 has the meaning specified in
Section 2.03(a)
.
Bid Loan Lender
 means, in respect of any Bid Loan, the Lender making such Bid Loan to the Borrower.
Bid Loan Sublimit
 means an amount equal to $500,000,000. The Bid Loan Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Bid Request
 means a written request for one or more Bid Loans substantially in the form of
Exhibit B-1
.
3
\34414564.10
Borrower
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower Materials
 has the meaning specified in
Section 6.01
.
Borrowing
 means a Committed Borrowing, a Bid Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Business Day
 means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agents Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day that is also a London Banking Day.
Capitalized Lease Obligations
 means any and all monetary obligations under any leasing arrangements which have been capitalized, as such obligations are reported in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries
Cash Collateralize
 means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender (as applicable) and the Lenders, as collateral for L/C Obligations, Obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans, or obligations of Lenders to fund participations in respect of either thereof (as the context may require), cash or deposit account balances or, if the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender benefitting from such collateral shall agree in its sole discretion, other credit support, in each case pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to (a) the Administrative Agent and (b) the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender (as applicable). Cash Collateral shall have a meaning correlative to the foregoing and shall include the proceeds of such cash collateral and other credit support.
Cash Management Agreement
 means any agreement that is entered into by and between any Loan Party
and any Cash Management Bank and that is not prohibited by the terms hereof to provide cash management services, including treasury, depository, overdraft, credit or debit card, electronic funds transfer and other cash management arrangements.
Cash Management Bank
 means any Person that, (a) at the time it enters into a Cash Management Agreement with a Loan Party, is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, or (b) at the time it (or its Affiliate) becomes a Lender, is a party to a Cash Management Agreement with a Loan Party, in each case, in its capacity as a party to such Cash Management Agreement.
Change in Law
 means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation, implementation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority;
provided
that notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (x) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (y) all requests, rules, guidelines or directives promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a Change in Law, regardless of the date enacted, adopted or issued.
4
\34414564.10
Change of Control
 means, with respect to any Person, an event or series of events by which:
(a)    any person or group (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an 
option right
), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the equity securities of such Person entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of such Person on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option right); or
(b)    during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of such Person cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in
clause (i)
above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in
clauses (i)
and
(ii)
above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body (excluding, in the case of both
clause (ii)
and
clause (iii)
, any individual whose initial nomination for, or assumption of office as, a member of that board or equivalent governing body occurs as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents for the election or removal of one or more directors by any person or group other than a solicitation for the election of one or more directors by or on behalf of the board of directors).
Citibank
 means Citibank, N.A. and its successors.
Closing Date
 means the first date all the conditions precedent in
Section 4.01
are satisfied or waived in accordance with
Section 10.01
.
Code
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Commitment
 means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to
Section 2.01
, (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lenders name on
Schedule 2.01
or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
5
\34414564.10
Committed Borrowing
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to
Section 2.01
.
Committed Loan
 has the meaning specified in
Section 2.01
.
Committed Loan Notice
 means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans, pursuant to
Section 2.02(a)
, which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of
Exhibit A
.
Competitive Bid
 means a written offer by a Lender to make one or more Bid Loans, substantially in the form of
Exhibit B-2
, duly completed and signed by a Lender.
Compliance Certificate
 means a certificate substantially in the form of
Exhibit E
.
Consolidated Subsidiary
 means at any date any Subsidiary the accounts of which would be consolidated with the Borrower in its consolidated financial statements if such statements were prepared as of such date.
Control
 means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. 
Controlling
 and 
Controlled
 have meanings correlative thereto.
Credit Extension
 means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Debt Rating
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Applicable Rate.
Debtor Relief Laws
 means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Default
 means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default Rate
 means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate
plus
(ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans
plus
(iii) 2% per annum;
provided
,
however
, that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan
plus
2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate
plus
2% per annum.
Defaulting Lender
 means, subject to
Section 2.18(b)
, any Lender that, as determined by the Administrative Agent, (a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Loans or participations in respect of Letters of Credit or Swing Line
6
\34414564.10
Loans, within three Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in writing that such failure is the result of such Lenders good faith determination that one or more conditions precedent to funding (each of which conditions precedent, together with any applicable default, shall be specifically identified in such writing) has not been satisfied,
(b) has notified the Borrower, or the Administrative Agent that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations or has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its funding obligations hereunder or under other agreements generally in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that it will comply with its funding obligations, or (d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment;
provided
that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority.
Dollar
 and 
$
 mean lawful money of the United States.
Eligible Assignee
 means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
, and
(v)
(subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
).
Environmental Laws
 means any and all applicable federal, state and local statutes, regulations, ordinances, rules, administrative orders, consent decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses, agreements or other governmental restrictions relating to the environment or to emissions, discharges or releases of pollutants, contaminants, hazardous substances, or hazardous wastes into the environment including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, ground water, or land, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of pollutants, contaminants, hazardous substances, or hazardous wastes.
Environmental Liability
 means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
ERISA
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA Group
 means the Borrower and all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control that, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
7
\34414564.10
Eurodollar Bid Margin
 means the margin above or below the Eurodollar Rate to be added to or subtracted from the Eurodollar Rate, which margin shall be expressed in multiples of 1/100
th
of one basis point.
Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan
 means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate based upon the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate
 means:
(a)
    
for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to (i) the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (
BBA LIBOR
), as published by Reuters (or such other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period or, (ii) if such rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of Americas London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two London Banking Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period; and
(b)
    
for any interest calculation with respect to a Base Rate Loan on any date, the rate per annum equal to (i) BBA LIBOR, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time determined two London Banking Days prior to such date for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing that day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Base Rate Loan being made or maintained and with a term equal to one month would be offered by Bank of Americas London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at their request at the date and time of determination.
Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan
 means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on
clause (a)
of the definition of Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
 means a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
Event of Default
 has the meaning specified in
Section 8.01
.
Exchange Act
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Excluded Taxes
 means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the Laws of which such recipient is organized or in
8
\34414564.10
which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, (c) any backup withholding tax that is required by the Code to be withheld from amounts payable to a Lender that has failed to comply with
clause (A)
of
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
, (d) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under
Section 10.13
), any United States
withholding tax that (i) is required to be imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender pursuant to the Laws in force at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lenders failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with
clause (B)
of
Section 3.01(e)(ii)
, except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to
Section 3.01(a)(ii)
or
(c)
, and (e) any U.S. federal withholding Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Existing Credit Agreement
means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of October 14, 2005, among the Borrower, each lender from time to time party thereto and Bank of America, as administrative agent (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time).
FASB ASC
 means the Accounting Standards Codification of the Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FATCA
 means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as of the date of this Agreement (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
Federal Funds Rate
means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day;
provided
that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letters
 means the collective reference to (a) that certain fee letter agreement, dated October 27, 2011, among the Borrower, Bank of America and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, (b) that certain fee letter agreement, dated October 27, 2011, among the Borrower, Wells Fargo and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and (c) that certain fee letter agreement, dated October 27, 2011, between the Borrower and Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Foreign Lender
 means any Lender that is organized under the Laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes (including such a Lender when acting in the capacity of the L/C Issuer). For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
9
\34414564.10
Fronting Exposure
 means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender, (a) with respect to the L/C Issuer, such Defaulting Lenders Applicable Percentage of the outstanding L/C Obligations other than L/C Obligations as to which such Defaulting Lenders participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof, and (b) with respect to the Swing Line Lender, such Defaulting Lenders Applicable Percentage of Swing Line Loans other than Swing Line Loans as to which such Defaulting Lenders participation obligation has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fund
 means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
GAAP
 means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
Governmental Authority
 means any nation or government, any state or other political subdivision thereof, any central bank (or similar monetary or regulatory authority) thereof, any entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government and any corporation or other entity owned or controlled, through stock or capital ownership or otherwise, by any of the foregoing.
Guarantee
 means, as to any Person, (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the primary obligor) in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith unless the recourse of the creditor for such obligation is limited to property of such Person, in which case the amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the lesser of the amount of
10
\34414564.10
the obligation determined in accordance with the first clause of this sentence or the fair market value of the property securing such obligation. The term Guarantee as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee Trigger Period
 means the period from and including the Closing Date through the payment and satisfaction in full of all obligations under any Public Notes.
Guaranteed Indebtedness
 has the meaning specified in
Section 6.08(a)
.
Guarantors
 means, collectively, each Subsidiary of the Borrower that is required to be a party to a Guaranty pursuant to
Section 6.08
.
Guaranty
 means one or more Guaranty Agreements made by the Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of
Exhibit G
.
Hazardous Materials
 means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hedge Bank
 means any Person that, (a) at the time it enters into Swap Contract not prohibited under
Article VI
or
VII
, is a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, or (b) at the time it (or its Affiliate) becomes a Lender, is a party to a Swap Contract not prohibited under
Article VI
or
VII
, in each case, in its capacity as a party to such Swap Contract.
Indebtedness
 means all indebtedness for borrowed money, ESOP guarantees and Capitalized Lease Obligations reported as debt in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries,
plus
all indebtedness for borrowed money and capitalized lease obligations incurred by third parties and, in both cases, guaranteed by the Borrower or a Subsidiary not otherwise reported as debt in such consolidated financial statements.
Indemnified Taxes
 means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnitees
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.04(b)
.
Information
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.07
.
Interest Payment Date
 means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date;
provided
,
however
, that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each of March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Period
 means (a) as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or (in the case of any Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan) converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six
11
\34414564.10
months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice or Bid Request, as the case may be; and (b) as to each Absolute Rate Loan, a period of not less than 14 days and not more than 180 days as selected by the Borrower in its Bid Request;
provided
that:
(i)    any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii)    any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
(iii)    no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
IRS
 means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
ISP
 means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the International Standby Practices 1998 published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
Issuer Documents
 means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.
Laws
 means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
L/C Advance
 means, with respect to each Lender, such Lenders funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
L/C Borrowing
 means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing.
L/C Credit Extension
 means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Issuer
 means Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citibank or any of their respective Affiliates designated by Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citibank, respectively, in their capacities as issuers of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, and any other Lender selected by the Borrower, approved by the Administrative Agent and such Lender agreeing to be an L/C Issuer hereunder pursuant to a joinder or similar agreement joining such
12
\34414564.10
Lender in such limited capacity as provided by the Administrative Agent, which agreement must be reasonably acceptable to the Borrower;
provided
,
however
, that there shall be no more than three (3) L/C Issuers at any one time. All references to the L/C Issuer shall mean any L/C Issuer, the L/C Issuer issuing the applicable Letter of Credit, or all L/C Issuers, as the context may imply.
L/C Obligations
 means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit
plus
the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with
Section 1.06
. For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be outstanding in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
Lender
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lending Office
 means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lenders Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Letter of Credit
 means any standby letter of credit or sight draft commercial letter of credit issued hereunder.
Letter of Credit Application
 means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
 means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Fee
 has the meaning specified in
Section 2.04(h)
.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
 means an amount equal to $200,000,000. The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Lien
 means any mortgage, pledge, security interest, lien or encumbrance.
Loan
 means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under
Article II
in the form of a Committed Loan, a Bid Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan Documents
 means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, any agreement creating or perfecting rights in Cash Collateral pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.17
of this Agreement, the Fee Letters and the Guaranty (if applicable).
Loan Parties
 means, collectively, the Borrower and, to the extent applicable, each Guarantor.
13
\34414564.10
London Banking Day
 means any day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Material Adverse Effect
 means a material adverse effect on (a) the ability of the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to perform their obligations under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (b) the validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any of the Notes, (c) the rights and remedies of any Lender or the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or (d) the timely payment of the principal of or interest on the Loans or other amounts payable in connection therewith.
Material Debt
 means Indebtedness (other than Loans under this Agreement) of the Borrower and/or one or more of its Subsidiaries, arising in one or more related or unrelated transactions, in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $150,000,000.
Maturity Date
 means the later of (a) November 30, 2016 or (b) if maturity is extended pursuant to
Section 2.14
, such extended maturity date as determined pursuant to such Section;
provided
,
however
, that,
in each case, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Moodys
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Multiemployer Plan
 means at any time an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any member of the ERISA Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions.
Note
 means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of
Exhibit D
.
Obligations
 means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, Letter of Credit, Cash Management Agreement or Swap Contract with a Hedge Bank, in each case whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Organization Documents
 means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
14
\34414564.10
Other Taxes
 means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Outstanding Amount
 means (a) with respect to Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Participant
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.06(d)
.
PBGC
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
Person
 means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Plan
 means at any time an employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) that is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code and is maintained, or contributed to, by any member of the ERISA Group for employees of any member of the ERISA Group.
Platform
 has the meaning specified in
Section 6.01
.
Principal Property
 means, at any time, any manufacturing facility that is located in the United States, is owned by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and has a book value, net of any depreciation or amortization, pursuant to the then most recently delivered financial statements, in excess of $15,000,000.
Public Lender
 has the meaning specified in
Section 6.01
.
Public Notes
 means, collectively or individually as the context may indicate, each of (a) the 5.60% senior unsecured notes of the Borrower due 2013 in the original maximum principal amount of $200,000,000,
outstanding on the date hereof, all of which were issued pursuant to that certain Indenture dated as of December 17, 1997, between the Borrower and U.S. Bank National Association, and (b) any other public notes of the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower, outstanding on the date hereof.
Register
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.06(c)
.
Regulation U
 means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time.
15
\34414564.10
Related Parties
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees and advisors of such Person and of such Persons Affiliates.
Removal Effective Date
 has the meaning specified in
Section 9.06(b)
.
Request for Credit Extension
 means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, a Bid Request, (c) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (d) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Required Lenders
 means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to
Section 8.02
, Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50%
of the Total Outstandings of Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations (with the aggregate amount of each Lenders risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed held by such Lender for purposes of this definition);
provided
that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Resignation Effective Date
 has the meaning specified in
Section 9.06(a)
.
Responsible Officer
 means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of a Loan Party and,
solely for purposes of the delivery of incumbency certificates pursuant to
Section 4.01
, the secretary or any assistant secretary of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Restricted Lender
 has the meaning specified in
Section 10.13
.
Restricted Subsidiary
 means (a) each Loan Party and (b) each Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
S&P
 means Standard & Poors Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
SEC
 means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
Stockholders Equity
 means, as of any date of determination for the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries, stockholders equity as of that date determined in accordance with GAAP.
Subsidiary
 means any corporation or other entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Borrower.
16
\34414564.10
Swap Contract
 means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a 
Master Agreement
), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swing Line Borrowing
 means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to
Section 2.05
.
Swing Line Lender
 means Bank of America and Wells Fargo or any of their respective Affiliates in their capacities as providers of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder;
provided
,
however
, that there shall be no more than two (2) Swing Line Lenders at any one time. All references to the Swing Line Lender shall mean any Swing Line Lender, the Swing Line Lender providing the applicable Swing Line Loan, or all Swing Line Lenders, as the context may apply.
Swing Line Loan
 has the meaning specified in
Section 2.05(a)
.
Swing Line Loan Notice
 means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to
Section 2.05(b)
, which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of
Exhibit C
.
Swing Line Sublimit
 means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $100,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Taxes
 means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings (including backup withholding), assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Total Outstandings
 means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Type
 means (a) with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan, and (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, its character as an Absolute Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
17
\34414564.10
Unfunded Liabilities
 means, with respect to any Plan at any time, the amount (if any) by which (a) the present value of all benefits under such Plan
exceeds
(b) the fair market value of all Plan assets allocable to such benefits (excluding any accrued but unpaid contributions), all determined as of the then most recent valuation date for such Plan, but only to the extent that such excess represents a potential liability of a member of the ERISA Group to the PBGC or an appointed trustee under Title IV of ERISA.
United States
 and 
U.S.
 mean the United States of America.
Unreimbursed Amount
 has the meaning specified in
Section 2.04(c)(i)
.
Unrestricted Subsidiaries
 means (a) Chengde Pipe Hong Kong Limited (
Chengde
) and (b) any other Subsidiary designated by the Borrower in writing to the Administrative Agent; provided that no such designation may be made unless, as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter prior to such designation, the book value, net of depreciation and amortization and after intercompany eliminations, of the assets of such entity (or the investment value, for Chengde), when aggregated with the book values, net of depreciation and amortization and after intercompany eliminations, of the assets (or the investment value, for Chengde) of all Unrestricted Subsidiaries does not exceed, in the aggregate, 10% of the book value of the total assets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries. Unrestricted Subsidiaries includes any direct or indirect subsidiaries of an Unrestricted Subsidiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall a Loan Party be designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Wells Fargo
 means Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and its successors.
1.02
    
Other Interpretive Provisions
. With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
(a)
    
The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words 
include
, 
includes
 and 
including
 shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation. The word 
will
 shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word 
shall
. Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Persons successors and assigns, (iii) the words 
hereto
, 
herein
, 
hereof
 and 
hereunder
, and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words 
asset
 and 
property
 shall be construed to have the same meaning
18
\34414564.10
and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
(b)
    
In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word 
from
 means 
from and including
; the words 
to
 and 
until
 each mean 
to but excluding
; and the word 
through
 means 
to and including
.
(c)
    
Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
1.03
    
Accounting Terms
.
(a)
    
Generally
. All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements,
except
as otherwise specifically prescribed herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining compliance with any covenant (including the computation of any financial covenant) contained herein, Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall be deemed to be carried at 100% of the outstanding principal amount thereof, and the effects of FASB ASC 825 on financial liabilities shall be disregarded.
(b)
    
Changes in GAAP
. If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders);
provided
that
, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
1.04
    
Rounding
. Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.05
    
Times of Day
. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Pacific time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.06
    
Letter of Credit Amounts
.
Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time;
provided
,
however
, that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms
19
\34414564.10
or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
ARTICLE II. THE COMMITMENTS AND CREDIT EXTENSIONS
2.01
    
Committed Loans
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a 
Committed Loan
) to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lenders Commitment;
provided
,
however
, that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender,
plus
such Lenders Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations,
plus
such Lenders Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lenders Commitment. Within the limits of each Lenders Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this
Section 2.01
, prepay under
Section 2.06
, and reborrow under this
Section 2.01
. Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.02
    
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
.
(a)
    
Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans shall be made upon the Borrowers irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than (i) 1:00 p.m. three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans to Base Rate Committed Loans, and (ii) 10:00 a.m. on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this
Section 2.02(a)
must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in
Sections 2.04(c)
and
2.05(c)
, each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $2,000,000 or a whole multiple of $500,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar
20
\34414564.10
Rate Committed Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
(b)
    
Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agents Office not later than 12:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
(and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension,
Section 4.01
), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower;
provided
,
however
, that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing,
first
, shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and
second
, shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
(c)
    
Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
(d)
    
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of Americas prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e)
    
After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
2.03
    
Bid Loans
.
(a)
    
General
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees that the Borrower may from time to time request the Lenders to submit offers to make loans (each such loan, a 
Bid Loan
) to the Borrower prior to the Maturity Date pursuant to this
Section 2.03
;
provided
,
however
, that after giving effect to any Bid Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Bid Loans shall not exceed the Bid Loan Sublimit. There shall not be more than ten different Interest Periods in effect with respect to Bid Loans at any time.
21
\34414564.10
(b)
    
Requesting Competitive Bids
. The Borrower may request the submission of Competitive Bids by delivering a Bid Request to the Administrative Agent not later than 9:00 a.m. (i) one Business Day prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) four Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans. Each Bid Request shall specify (i) the requested date of the Bid Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Bid Loans requested (which must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof), (iii) the Type of Bid Loans requested, and (iv) the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, and shall be signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. No Bid Request shall contain a request for (i) more than one Type of Bid Loan or (ii) Bid Loans having more than three different Interest Periods. Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise agrees in its sole discretion, the Borrower may not submit a Bid Request if it has submitted another Bid Request within the prior five Business Days.
(c)
    
Submitting Competitive Bids
.
(i)
    
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of each Bid Request received by it from the Borrower and the contents of such Bid Request.
(ii)
    
Each Lender may (but shall have no obligation to) submit a Competitive Bid containing an offer to make one or more Bid Loans in response to such Bid Request. Such Competitive Bid must be delivered to the Administrative Agent not later than 9:30 a.m. (A) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (B) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans;
provided
,
however
, that any Competitive Bid submitted by Bank of America in its capacity as a Lender in response to any Bid Request must be submitted to the Administrative Agent not later than 9:15 a.m. on the date on which Competitive Bids are required to be delivered by the other Lenders in response to such Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (A) the proposed date of the Bid Borrowing; (B) the principal amount of each Bid Loan for which such Competitive Bid is being made, which principal amount (x) may be equal to, greater than or less than the Commitment of the bidding Lender, (y) must be $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (z) may not exceed the principal amount of Bid Loans for which Competitive Bids were requested; (C) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Absolute Rate Bid Loans, the Absolute Rate offered for each such Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; (D) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Eurodollar Bid Margin with respect to each such Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; and (E) the identity of the bidding Lender.
(iii)
    
Any Competitive Bid shall be disregarded if it (A) is received after the applicable time specified in
clause (ii)
above, (B) is not substantially in the form of a Competitive Bid as specified herein, (C) contains qualifying, conditional or similar language, (D) proposes terms other than or in addition to those set forth in the applicable Bid Request, or (E) is otherwise not responsive to such Bid Request. Any Lender may correct a Competitive Bid containing a manifest error by submitting a corrected Competitive Bid (identified as such) not later than the applicable time required for submission of Competitive Bids. Any such submission of a corrected Competitive Bid shall constitute a revocation of
22
\34414564.10
the Competitive Bid that contained the manifest error. The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, notify any Lender of any manifest error it detects in such Lenders Competitive Bid.
(iv)
    
Subject only to the provisions of
Sections 3.02
,
3.03
and
4.02
and
clause (iii)
above, each Competitive Bid shall be irrevocable.
(d)
    
Notice to Borrower of Competitive Bids
. Not later than 10:00 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of the identity of each Lender that has submitted a Competitive Bid that complies with
Section 2.03(c)
and of the terms of the offers contained in each such Competitive Bid.
(e)
    
Acceptance of Competitive Bids
. Not later than 10:30 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of its acceptance or rejection of the offers notified to it pursuant to
Section 2.03(d)
. The Borrower shall be under no obligation to accept any Competitive Bid and may choose to reject all Competitive Bids. In the case of acceptance, such notice shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bids for each Interest Period that is accepted. The Borrower may accept any Competitive Bid in whole or in part;
provided
that:
(i)
    
the aggregate principal amount of each Bid Borrowing may not exceed the applicable amount set forth in the related Bid Request;
(ii)
    
the principal amount of each Bid Loan must be $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and
(iii)
    
the Borrower may not accept any offer that is described in
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements hereof.
(f)
    
Procedure for Identical Bids
. If two or more Lenders have submitted Competitive Bids at the same Absolute Rate or Eurodollar Bid Margin, as the case may be, for the same Interest Period, and the result of accepting all of such Competitive Bids in whole (together with any other Competitive Bids at lower Absolute Rates or Eurodollar Bid Margins, as the case may be, accepted for such Interest Period) would be to cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the applicable Bid Borrowing to exceed the amount specified therefor in the related Bid Request, then, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and such Lenders, such Competitive Bids shall be accepted as nearly as possible in proportion to the amount offered by each such Lender in respect of such Interest Period, with such accepted amounts being rounded to the nearest whole multiple of $1,000,000.
(g)
    
Notice to Lenders of Acceptance or Rejection of Bids
. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender having submitted a Competitive Bid whether or not its offer has been accepted and, if its offer has been accepted, of the amount of the Bid Loan or Bid Loans to be made by it on the date of the applicable Bid Borrowing. Any Competitive Bid or portion thereof
23
\34414564.10
that is not accepted by the Borrower by the applicable time specified in
Section 2.03(e)
shall be deemed rejected.
(h)
    
Notice of Eurodollar Rate
. If any Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Loans, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Eurodollar Rate for the relevant Interest Period, and promptly after making such determination, shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that will be participating in such Bid Borrowing of such Eurodollar Rate.
(i)
    
Funding of Bid Loans
. Each Lender that has received notice pursuant to
Section 2.03(g)
that all or a portion of its Competitive Bid has been accepted by the Borrower shall make the amount of its Bid Loan(s) available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agents Office not later than 10:00 a.m. on the date of the requested Bid Borrowing. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
, the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
(j)
    
Notice of Range of Bids
. After each Competitive Bid auction pursuant to this
Section 2.03
, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender that submitted a Competitive Bid in such auction of the ranges of bids submitted (without the bidders name) and accepted for each Bid Loan and the aggregate amount of each Bid Borrowing.
2.04
    
Letters of Credit
.
(a)
    
The Letter of Credit Commitment
.
(i)
    
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this
Section 2.04
, (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with
subsection (b)
below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder;
provided
that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender,
plus
such Lenders Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations,
plus
such Lenders Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lenders Commitment, and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit. Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.
(ii)
    
The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit, if:
24
\34414564.10
(A)
    
subject to
Section 2.04(b)(iii)
, the expiry date of the requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
(B)
    
the expiry date of the requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
(iii) The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A)
    
any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing the Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or the Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to the Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
(B)
    
the issuance of the Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of the L/C Issuer applicable to letters of credit generally;
(C)
    
except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, the Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $100,000;
(D)
    
the Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars;
(E)
    
the aggregate L/C Extensions with respect to all Letters of Credit issued or to be issued by any such L/C Issuer exceeds such L/C Issuers pro rata share of the Letter of Credit Sublimit; or
(F)
    
any Lender is at that time a Defaulting Lender, unless the L/C Issuer has entered into arrangements, including the delivery of Cash Collateral, satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (in its sole discretion) with the Borrower or such Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuers actual or potential Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to
Section 2.18(a)(iv
)) with respect to the Defaulting Lender arising from either the Letter of Credit then proposed to be issued or that Letter of Credit and all other L/C Obligations as to which the L/C Issuer has actual or potential Fronting Exposure, as it may elect in its sole discretion.
(iv)
    
The L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue the Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
25
\34414564.10
(v)
    
The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue the Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of the Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to the Letter of Credit.
(vi)
    
The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in
Article IX
with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term Administrative Agent as used in
Article IX
included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
(b)
    
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
.
(i)
    
Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (G) the purpose and nature of the requested Letter of Credit; and (H) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
(ii)
    
Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any Loan Party, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment
26
\34414564.10
of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in
Article IV
shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuers usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lenders Applicable Percentage
times
the amount of such Letter of Credit.
(iii)
    
If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an 
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
);
provided
that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the 
Non-Extension Notice Date
) in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date;
provided
,
however
, that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) the L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of
clause (ii)
or
(iii)
of
Section 2.04(a)
or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in
Section 4.02
is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing the L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
(iv)
    
Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(c)
    
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
.
(i)
    
Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof. Not later than 9:00 a.m. on the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an 
Honor Date
), the Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing. If the Borrower fails to so reimburse the L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of
27
\34414564.10
the unreimbursed drawing (the 
Unreimbursed Amount
), and the amount of such Lenders Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in
Section 2.02
for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
(other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice). Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this
Section 2.04(c)(i)
may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing;
provided
that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice.
(ii)
    
Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to
Section 2.04(c)(i)
make funds available (and the Administrative Agent may apply Cash Collateral provided for this purpose) for the account of the L/C Issuer at the Administrative Agents Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 11:00 a.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of
Section 2.04(c)(iii)
, each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer.
(iii)
    
With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lenders payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this
Section 2.04
.
(iv)
    
Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this
Section 2.04(c)
to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lenders Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.
(v)
    
Each Lenders obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this
Section 2.04(c)
, shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing;
provided
,
however
, that each Lenders obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this
Section 2.04(c)
is subject to the conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
(other than delivery by the Borrower of a Committed Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve
28
\34414564.10
or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
(vi)
    
If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this
Section 2.04(c)
by the time specified in
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
, then, without limiting the other provisions of this Agreement, the L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the L/C Issuer in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation,
plus
any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the L/C Issuer in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lenders Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be. A certificate of the L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this
clause (vi)
shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d)
    
Repayment of Participations
.
(i)
    
At any time after the L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lenders L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with
Section 2.04(c)
, if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
(ii)
    
If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to
Section 2.04(c)(i)
is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in
Section 10.05
(including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent,
plus
interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
(e)
    
Obligations Absolute
.
The obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
29
\34414564.10
(i)
    
any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
(ii)
    
the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
(iii)
    
any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(iv)
    
any payment by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
(v)
    
any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Borrowers instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will immediately notify the L/C Issuer. The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
(f)
    
Role of L/C Issuer
.
Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit;
provided
,
however
, that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrowers pursuing such rights
30
\34414564.10
and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in
clauses (i)
through
(v)
of
Section 2.04(e)
;
provided
,
however
, that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves were caused by the L/C Issuers willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuers willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit.
In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
(g)
    
Applicability of ISP and UCP
.
Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued, (i) the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of Commerce at the time of issuance shall apply to each commercial Letter of Credit.
(h)
    
Letter of Credit Fees
. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage a Letter of Credit fee (the 
Letter of Credit Fee
)
for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate
times
the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit;
provided
, however, any Letter of Credit Fees otherwise payable for the account of a Defaulting Lender with respect to any Letter of Credit as to which such Defaulting Lender has not provided Cash Collateral satisfactory to the L/C Issuer pursuant to this
Section 2.04
shall be payable, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Law, to the other Lenders in accordance with the upward adjustments in their respective Applicable Percentages allocable to such Letter of Credit pursuant to
Section 2.18(a)(iv)
, with the balance of such fee, if any, payable to the L/C Issuer for its own account. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with
Section 1.06
. Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) due and payable on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand and (ii) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
(i)    
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
.
The Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit, at the rate per annum specified in the applicable Fee Letter, computed on the daily
31
\34414564.10
amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit on a quarterly basis in arrears Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with
Section 1.06
. In addition, the Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
(j)
    
Conflict with Issuer Documents
. In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
(k)
    
Letter of Credit Reports
. For so long as any Letter of Credit issued by an L/C Issuer is outstanding, such L/C Issuer shall deliver to the Administrative Agent on the last Business Day of each calendar month, and on each date that an L/C Credit Extension occurs with respect to any such Letter of Credit, a report in the form of
Exhibit H
, appropriately completed with the information for every outstanding Letter of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer.
(l)    
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
. Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit. The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of the Borrower, and that the Borrowers business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
2.05
    
Swing Line Loans
.
(a)
    
The Swing Line
. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lenders agree, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this
Section 2.05
, to make loans (each such loan, a 
Swing Line Loan
) to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lenders Commitment;
provided
,
however
, that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender,
plus
such Lenders Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations,
plus
such Lenders Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lenders Commitment, and
provided
,
further
, that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this
Section 2.05
, prepay under
Section 2.06
, and reborrow under this
Section 2.05
. Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to,
32
\34414564.10
and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lenders Applicable Percentage
times
the amount of such Swing Line Loan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Swing Line Lender shall be required to make a Swing Line Loan to the Borrower if the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans made or to be made by such Swing Line Lender exceeds such Swing Line Lenders pro rata share of the Swing Line Sublimit.
(b)
    
Borrowing Procedures
. Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrowers irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $500,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 11:00 a.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the first proviso to the first sentence of
Section 2.05(a)
, or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in
Article IV
is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 12:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower.
(c)
    
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
.
(i)
    
The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lenders Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of
Section 2.02
, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
. The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds (and the Administrative Agent may apply Cash Collateral available with respect to the applicable Swing Line Loan) for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agents Office not later than 10:00 a.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to
Section 2.05(c)(ii)
, each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made
33
\34414564.10
a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
(ii)
    
If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with
Section 2.05(c)(i)
, the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lenders payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to
Section 2.05(c)(i)
shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
(iii)
    
If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this
Section 2.05(c)
by the time specified in
Section 2.05(c)(i)
, the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation,
plus
any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lenders Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the case may be. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this
clause (iii)
shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(iv)
    
Each Lenders obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this
Section 2.05(c)
shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing;
provided
,
however
, that each Lenders obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this
Section 2.05(c)
is subject to the conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
. No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
(d)
    
Repayment of Participations
.
(i)
    
At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
(ii)
    
If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or
34
\34414564.10
interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in
Section 10.05
(including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent,
plus
interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
(e)
    
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
. The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this
Section 2.05
to refinance such Lenders Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
(f)
    
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
. The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
2.06
    
Prepayments
.
(a)
    
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty;
provided
that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lenders Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to
Section 3.05
. Subject to
Section 2.18
, each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
(b)
    
No Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan may be prepaid without the prior consent of the applicable Bid Loan Lender.
(c)
    
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty;
provided
that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m. on the date of the
35
\34414564.10
prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
(d)
    
If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess;
provided
,
however
, that the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this
Section 2.06(d)
unless after the prepayment in full of the Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.
2.07
    
Termination or Reduction of Commitments.
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments;
provided
that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Bid Loan Sublimit, the Letter of Credit Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.08
    
Repayment of Loans
.
(a)
    
The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans outstanding on such date.
(b)
    
The Borrower shall repay each Bid Loan on the last day of the Interest Period in respect thereof.
(c)
    
The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
2.09
    
Interest
.
(a)
    
Subject to the provisions of
subsection (b)
below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period
plus
the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate
plus
the Applicable Rate; (iii) each Bid Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for the
36
\34414564.10
Interest Period therefor at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period
plus
(or
minus
) the Eurodollar Bid Margin, or at the Absolute Rate for such Interest Period, as the case may be; and (iv) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate
plus
the Applicable Rate.
(b)
    
If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(i)
    
If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii)
    
Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iii)
    
Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c)
    
Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
2.10
    
Fees
. In addition to certain fees described in
subsections (h)
and
(i)
of
Section 2.04
:
(a)    
Facility Fee
. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate
times
the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage, subject to adjustment as provided in
Section 2.18
. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in
Article IV
is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
37
\34414564.10
(b)    
Other Fees
.
(i)
    
The Borrower shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
(ii)
    
The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
2.11
    
Computation of Interest and Fees; Retroactive Adjustments of Applicable Rate
.
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans (including Base Rate Loans determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate) and Facility Fees shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid,
provided
that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to
Section 2.13(a)
, bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.12
    
Evidence of Debt
.
(a)
    
The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lenders Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
(b)
    
In addition to the accounts and records referred to in
subsection (a)
, each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
2.13
    
Payments Generally; Administrative Agents Clawback
.
38
\34414564.10
(a)
    
General
. All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agents Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 11:00 a.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lenders Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 11:00 a.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
(b)
    
(i)
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 11:00 a.m. on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lenders share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with
Section 2.02
(or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by
Section 2.02
) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation,
plus
any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lenders Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
(ii)
    
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance
39
\34414564.10
herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this
subsection (b)
shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c)
    
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
. If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this
Article II
, and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in
Article IV
are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
(d)
    
Obligations of Lenders Several
. The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to
Section 10.04(c)
are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under
Section 10.04(c)
on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under
Section 10.04(c)
.
(e)
    
Funding Source
. Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
2.14
    
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
. If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lenders receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them,
provided
that:
40
\34414564.10
(i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by or on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement (including the application of funds arising from the existence of a Defaulting Lender),
(y) the application of Cash Collateral provided for in
Section 2.17
, or (z)
any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than an assignment to the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
The Borrower
consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
2.15
    
Extension of Maturity Date
.
(a)
    
Requests for Extension
. The Borrower may, at any time during the period commencing one year prior to the Maturity Date then in effect hereunder (the 
Existing Maturity Date
) and ending not less than thirty Business Days prior to the Existing Maturity Date, provide notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) requesting that each Lender extend such Lenders Maturity Date for an additional 364 days from the Existing Maturity Date;
provided
that in no event shall the Maturity Date, taking into account all extensions permitted hereunder, be extended beyond November 30, 2018.
(b)
    
Lender Elections to Extend
. Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not later than 15 days after receiving notification of the Borrowers request to extend the Maturity Date (the 
Notice Date
), advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (and each Lender that determines not to so extend its Maturity Date (a 
NonExtending Lender
) shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a NonExtending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
(c)
    
Notification by Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lenders determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the Existing Maturity Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
(d)
    
Additional Commitment Lenders
. The Borrower shall have the right to replace each NonExtending Lender with, and add as Lenders under this Agreement in place thereof, one or
41
\34414564.10
more Eligible Assignees (each, an 
Additional Commitment Lender
) as provided in
Section 10.13
;
provided
that each of such Additional Commitment Lenders shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the Existing Maturity Date, undertake a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lenders Commitment hereunder on such date).
(e)
    
Minimum Extension Requirement
. If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date (each, an 
Extending Lender
) and the additional Commitments of the Additional Commitment Lenders shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Existing Maturity Date, then, effective as of the Existing Maturity Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling 364 days after the Existing Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement.
(f)
    
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
. As a condition precedent to such extension, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Existing Maturity Date (in sufficient copies for each Extending Lender and each Additional Commitment Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such extension and (ii) in the case of the Borrower, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such extension, (A) the representations and warranties contained in
Article V
and the other Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Existing Maturity Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this
Section 2.15
, the representations and warranties contained in
subsections (a)
and
(b)
of
Section 5.04
shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to
subsections (a)
and
(b)
, respectively, of
Section 6.01
, and (B) no Default exists. In addition, on the Maturity Date of each Non-Extending Lender, the Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to
Section 3.05
) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
(g)
    
Conflicting Provisions
. This Section shall supersede any provisions in
Section 2.14
or
10.01
to the contrary.
2.16
    
Increase in Commitments.
(a)
    
Request for Increase
. Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $500,000,000;
provided
that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $25,000,000, and (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of five such requests. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event
42
\34414564.10
be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
(b)
    
Lender Elections to Increase
. Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment. For the avoidance of doubt, any Lender may decline, in its sole discretion, to increase its Commitment.
(c)
    
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of the Lenders responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent, each L/C Issuer and each Swing Line Lender (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d)
    
Effective Date and Allocations
. If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the 
Increase Effective Date
) and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date.
(e)
    
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
. As a condition precedent to such increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (x) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (y) in the case of the Borrower, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in
Article V
and the other Loan Documents are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this
Section 2.16
, the representations and warranties contained in
subsections (a)
and
(b)
of
Section 5.04
shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to
clauses (a)
and
(b)
, respectively, of
Section 6.01
, and (B) no Default exists. The Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to
Section 3.05
) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
(f)
    
Conflicting Provisions
. This Section shall supersede any provisions in
Section 2.14
or
10.01
to the contrary.
2.17
    
Cash Collateral
.
(a)
    
Certain Credit Support Events
. Upon the request of the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer (i) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of
43
\34414564.10
Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case, immediately Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations. At any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender, immediately upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to cover all Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to
Section 2.18(a)(iv)
and any Cash Collateral provided by the Defaulting Lender).
(b)
    
Grant of Security Interest
. All Cash Collateral (other than credit support not constituting funds subject to deposit) shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America. The Borrower, and to the extent provided by any Lender, such Lender, hereby grants to (and subjects to the control of) the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders (including the Swing Line Lender), and agrees to maintain, a first priority security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein, and all other property so provided as collateral pursuant hereto, and in all proceeds of the foregoing, all as security for the obligations to which such Cash Collateral may be applied pursuant to
Section 2.17(c)
. If at any time the Administrative Agent determines that Cash Collateral is subject to any right or claim of any Person other than the Administrative Agent as herein provided, or that the total amount of such Cash Collateral is less than the applicable Fronting Exposure and other obligations secured thereby, the Borrower or the relevant Defaulting Lender will, promptly upon demand by the Administrative Agent, pay or provide to the Administrative Agent additional Cash Collateral in an amount sufficient to eliminate such deficiency.
(c)
    
Application
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, Cash Collateral provided under any of this
Section 2.17
or
Sections 2.04
,
2.05
,
2.06
,
2.18
or
8.02
in respect of Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans shall be held and applied to the satisfaction of the specific L/C Obligations, Swing Line Loans, obligations to fund participations therein (including, as to Cash Collateral provided by a Defaulting Lender, any interest accrued on such obligation) and other obligations for which the Cash Collateral was so provided, prior to any other application of such property as may be provided for herein.
(d)
    
Release
. Cash Collateral (or the appropriate portion thereof) provided to reduce Fronting Exposure or other obligations shall be released promptly following (i) the elimination of the applicable Fronting Exposure or other obligations giving rise thereto (including by the termination of Defaulting Lender status of the applicable Lender (or, as appropriate, its assignee following compliance with
Section 10.06(b)(vi)
)) or (ii) the Administrative Agents good faith determination that there exists excess Cash Collateral;
provided
, however, (x) that Cash Collateral furnished by or on behalf of a Loan Party shall not be released during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default (and following application as provided in this
Section 2.17
may be otherwise applied in accordance with
Section 8.03
), and (y) the Person providing Cash Collateral and the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as applicable, may agree that Cash Collateral shall not be released but instead held to support future anticipated Fronting Exposure or other obligations.
2.18
    
Defaulting Lenders
.
(a)
    
Adjustments
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a
44
\34414564.10
Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
(i)
    
Waivers and Amendments
. That Defaulting Lenders right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement shall be restricted as set forth in
Section 10.01
.
(ii)
    
Reallocation of Payments
. Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent for the account of that Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to
Article VIII
or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by that Defaulting Lender pursuant to
Section 10.08
), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows:
first
, to the payment of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder;
second
, to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by that Defaulting Lender to the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder;
third
, if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, to be held as Cash Collateral for future funding obligations of that Defaulting Lender of any participation in any Swing Line Loan or Letter of Credit;
fourth
, as the Borrower may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Loan in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent;
fifth
, if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, to be held in a non-interest bearing deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of that Defaulting Lender to fund Loans under this Agreement;
sixth
, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement;
seventh
, so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to the Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by the Borrower against that Defaulting Lender as a result of that Defaulting Lenders breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and
eighth
, to that Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction;
provided
that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Loans or L/C Borrowings in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) such Loans or L/C Borrowings were made at a time when the conditions set forth in
Section 4.02
were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Loans of, and L/C Borrowings owed to, all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Loans of, or L/C Borrowings owed to, that Defaulting Lender. Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to a Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by a Defaulting Lender or to post Cash Collateral pursuant to this
Section 2.18(a)(ii)
shall be deemed paid to and redirected by that Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents hereto.
(iii)
    
Certain Fees
.
That Defaulting Lender (x) shall
be entitled to receive any facility fee pursuant to
Section 2.10(a)
for any period during which that Lender is a Defaulting Lender only to extent allocable to the sum of (1) the Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans funded by it and (2) its Applicable Percentage of the stated amount of Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans for which it has provided Cash Collateral pursuant to
Section 2.04,
45
\34414564.10
Section 2.05
,
Section 2.17
, or
Section 2.18(a)(ii)
, as applicable (and the Borrower shall (A) be required to pay to each of the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, as applicable, the amount of such fee allocable to its Fronting Exposure arising from that Defaulting Lender and (B) not be required to pay the remaining amount of such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to that Defaulting Lender) and (y) shall be limited in its right to receive Letter of Credit Fees as provided in
Section 2.04(h)
.
(iv)
    
Reallocation of Applicable Percentages to Reduce Fronting Exposure
. During any period in which there is a Defaulting Lender, for purposes of computing the amount of the obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit or Swing Line Loans pursuant to
Sections 2.04
and
2.05
, the Applicable Percentage of each non-Defaulting Lender shall be computed without giving effect to the Commitment of that Defaulting Lender;
provided
, that, (i) each such reallocation shall be given effect only if, at the date the applicable Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (ii) the aggregate obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans shall not exceed the positive difference, if any, of (1) the Commitment of that non-Defaulting Lender
minus
(2) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of that Lender.
(b)
    
Defaulting Lender Cure
.
If the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer agree in writing in their sole discretion that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any Cash Collateral), that Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Loans of the other Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Committed Loans and funded and unfunded participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans to be held on a pro rata basis by the Lenders in accordance with their Applicable Percentages (without giving effect to
Section 2.18(a)(iv)
), whereupon that Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender;
provided
that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrower while that Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and
provided
,
further
, that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lenders having been a Defaulting Lender.
ARTICLE III. TAXES, YIELD PROTECTION AND ILLEGALITY
3.01
    
Taxes
.
(a)
    
Payments Free of Taxes; Obligation to Withhold; Payments on Account of Taxes
.
(i)     Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall to the extent permitted by applicable Laws be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Taxes. If, however, applicable Laws require the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to withhold or deduct any Tax, such Tax shall be withheld or deducted in accordance with such Laws as
46
\34414564.10
determined by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, upon the basis of the information and documentation to be delivered pursuant to
subsection (e)
below.
(ii)
    
If the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be required by the Code to withhold or
deduct any Taxes, including both United States Federal backup withholding and withholding taxes, from any payment, then (A) the Administrative Agent shall withhold or make such deductions as are determined by the Administrative Agent to be required based upon the information and documentation it has received pursuant to
subsection (e)
below, (B) the Administrative Agent shall timely pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with the Code, and (C) to the extent that the withholding or deduction is made on account of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, the sum payable by the Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after any required withholding or the making of all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding or deduction been made.
(b)
    
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
. Without limiting the provisions of
subsection (a)
above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Laws.
(c)
    
Tax Indemnifications
.
(i)     Without limiting the provisions of
subsection (a)
or
(b)
above, the Borrower shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the L/C Issuer, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) withheld or deducted by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent or paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. The Borrower shall also, and does hereby, indemnify the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, for any amount which a Lender or the L/C Issuer for any reason fails to pay indefeasibly to the Administrative Agent as required by
clause (ii)
of this subsection. A certificate as to the amount of any such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(ii)
    
Without limiting the provisions of
subsection (a)
or
(b)
above, each Lender and the L/C Issuer shall, and does hereby, indemnify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, and shall make payment in respect thereof within 10 days after demand therefor, against any and all Taxes and any and all related losses, claims, liabilities, penalties, interest and expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Borrower or
the Administrative Agent) incurred by or asserted against the Borrower or the
47
\34414564.10
Administrative Agent by any Governmental Authority as a result of the failure by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to deliver, or as a result of the inaccuracy, inadequacy or deficiency of, any documentation required to be delivered by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to
subsection (e)
. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to set off and apply any and all amounts at any time owing to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, under this Agreement or any other Loan Document against any amount due to the Administrative Agent under this
clause (ii)
. The agreements in this
clause (ii)
shall survive the resignation and/or replacement of the Administrative Agent, any assignment of rights by, or the replacement of, a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all other Obligations.
(d)
    
Evidence of Payments
.
Upon request by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, after any payment of Taxes by the Borrower or by the Administrative Agent to a Governmental Authority as provided in this
Section 3.01
, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Administrative Agent shall deliver to the Borrower, as the case may be, the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of any return required by Laws to report such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be.
(e)
    
Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation
. (i)    Each Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent, at the time or times prescribed by applicable Laws or when reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Laws or by the taxing authorities of any jurisdiction and such other reasonably requested information as will permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine (A) whether or not payments made hereunder or under any other Loan Document are subject to Taxes, (B) if applicable, the required rate of withholding or deduction, and (C) such Lenders entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable Taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lenders status for withholding tax purposes in the applicable jurisdiction.
(ii)
    
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States,
(A)
    
any Lender that is a United States person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable Laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements; and
(B)
    
each Foreign Lender that is entitled under the Code or any applicable treaty to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower and the
48
\34414564.10
Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(I)    executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(II)    executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(III)    executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8IMY and all required supporting documentation,
(IV)    in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a bank within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a 10 percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a controlled foreign corporation described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(V)    executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable Laws as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable Laws to permit the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(iii)
    
Each Lender shall promptly (A) notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any jurisdiction that the Borrower or the Administrative Agent make any withholding or deduction for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender.
(iv)    If a payment made to a Lender under any Loan Document would be subject to U.S. federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrower and the Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lenders obligations under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct
49
\34414564.10
and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this
clause (iv)
, FATCA shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
(f)
    
Treatment of Certain Refunds
. Unless required by applicable Laws, at no time shall the Administrative Agent have any obligation to file for or otherwise pursue on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, or have any obligation to pay to any Lender or the L/C Issuer, any refund of Taxes withheld or deducted from funds paid for the account of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be. If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund),
provided
that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (
plus
any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
3.02
    
Illegality
. If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Loans whose interest is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, (i) any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans shall be suspended, and (ii) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender making or maintaining Base Rate Loans the interest rate on which is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate, the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate, in each case until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, (x) the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans (the interest rate on which Base Rate Loans of such Lender shall, if necessary to avoid such illegality, be determined by the Administrative Agent without reference to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate), either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans and (y) if such notice asserts the illegality of such Lender determining or charging interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, the Administrative Agent shall during the
50
\34414564.10
period of such suspension compute the Base Rate applicable to such Lender without reference to the Eurodollar Rate component thereof until the Administrative Agent is advised in writing by such Lender that it is no longer illegal for such Lender to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.03
    
Inability to Determine Rates
. If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan or in connection with an existing or proposed Base Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, (x) the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended, and (y) in the event of a determination described in the preceding sentence with respect to the Eurodollar Rate component of the Base Rate, the utilization of the Eurodollar Rate component in determining the Base Rate shall be suspended, in each case until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.04
    
Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
.
(a)
    
Increased Costs Generally
. If any Change in Law shall:
(i)
    
impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by
Section 3.04(e)
) or the L/C Issuer;
(ii)
    
subject any Lender or the L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or the L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by
Section 3.01
and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer); or
(iii)
    
impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
51
\34414564.10
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan the interest on which is determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b)
    
Capital Requirements
. If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lenders or the L/C Issuers holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lenders or the L/C Issuers capital or on the capital of such Lenders or the L/C Issuers holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lenders or the L/C Issuers holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lenders or the L/C Issuers policies and the policies of such Lenders or the L/C Issuers holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lenders or the L/C Issuers holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c)
    
Certificates for Reimbursement
. A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in
subsection (a)
or
(b)
of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d)
    
Delay in Requests
. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lenders or the L/C Issuers right to demand such compensation,
provided
that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than three months prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lenders or the L/C Issuers intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the three-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
(e)
    
Reserves on Eurodollar Rate Loans
. The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as Eurocurrency liabilities), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Rate Loan equal to the actual
52
\34414564.10
costs of such reserves allocated to such Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan,
provided
the Borrower shall have received at least 10 days prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
3.05
    
Compensation for Losses
. Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
(a)
    
any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b)
    
any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
(c)
    
any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 10.13
;
including any loss of anticipated profits and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this
Section 3.05
, each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Rate
for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan was in fact so funded.
3.06
    
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
.
(a)
    
Designation of a Different Lending Office
. If any Lender requests compensation under
Section 3.04
, or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender, the L/C Issuer, or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to
Section 3.01
, or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to
Section 3.02
, then such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall, as applicable, use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to
Section 3.01
or
3.04
, as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to
Section 3.02
, as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable
53
\34414564.10
costs and expenses incurred by any Lender or the L/C Issuer in connection with any such designation or assignment.
(b)
    
Replacement of Lenders
. If any Lender requests compensation under
Section 3.04
, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to
Section 3.01
, the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with
Section 10.13
.
3.07
    
Survival
. All of the Borrowers obligations under this
Article III
shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments, repayment of all other Obligations hereunder, and resignation of the Administrative Agent.
ARTICLE IV. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CREDIT EXTENSIONS
4.01
    
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
. The obligation of the L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
(a)
    
The Administrative Agents receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
(i)
    
executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Guaranty (if applicable), sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
(ii)
    
a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
(iii)
    
such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
(iv)
    
such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each such Loan Party is validly existing and qualified to engage in business in its jurisdiction of formation, including Organization Documents and certificates of valid existence;
(v)
    
a favorable opinion of Buchanan Ingersoll & Rooney PC, counsel to the Loan Parties, and
the General Counsel
of the Borrower, substantially in the form of
Exhibit I
;
(vi)
    
a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall
54
\34414564.10
be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
(vii)
    
a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that the conditions specified in
Sections 4.02(a)
and
(b)
have been satisfied, and (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect;
(viii)
    
a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying the Borrowers current Debt Rating; and
(ix)
    
evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement has been or concurrently with the Closing Date is being terminated.
(b)
    
Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c)
    
Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date,
plus
such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (
provided
that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of
Section 9.03
, for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this
Section 4.01
, each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
4.02
    
Conditions to all Credit Extensions
. The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
(a)
    
No Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and except as otherwise described by the Borrower in a writing to the Administrative Agent and waived by the Required Lenders, the representations of the Borrower in
Article V
(other than
Sections 5.04(c)
,
5.05
,
5.11
and
5.12
) shall be true on and as of the date of such Credit Extension with the same force and effect as if made on and as of such date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of the representations of the Borrower in
Article V
in respect of any Loans to be made on the Closing Date, the limitation in the parenthetical included in the previous sentence shall not apply.
55
\34414564.10
(b)
    
The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
(c)
    
Each Request for Credit Extension given by the Borrower shall constitute a representation by the Borrower as to the satisfaction in respect of such borrowing or issuance of the conditions referred to in
Section 4.02(a)
.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Committed Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in
Sections 4.02(a)
and
(b)
have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
ARTICLE V.
    
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
5.01
    
Corporate Existence and Power
. Each of the Borrower and each material Loan Party is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the state of its organization without limitation on the duration of its existence, to the extent applicable, is in good standing therein, and is duly qualified to transact business in all jurisdictions where such qualification is necessary, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or licensed will not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; the Borrower and each Loan Party has the requisite power to enter into and perform each Loan Document to which it is a party and the Borrower has the corporate power to borrow Loans, request Letters of Credit and issue Notes as contemplated by this Agreement.
5.02
    
No Contravention
. The execution and delivery by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party and the performance by each Loan Party of its respective obligations under any Loan Document, do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or such corporations Charter or Certificate of Incorporation, as the case may be, or Bylaws, operating agreement, partnership agreement or any indenture, agreement, instrument, judgment or order to which such Loan Party is a party or by which it or any of its material assets or properties may be bound or affected which would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.03
    
Corporate Authorization; Binding Effect
. Each Loan Party has taken all requisite action necessary to authorize its execution and delivery of each Loan Document to which it is a party and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby; each Loan Document constitutes the valid and binding agreements of each Loan Party that is party to such Loan Documents, enforceable against such Loan Party in accordance with their respective terms, except to the extent limited by bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium and other similar laws of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors rights or by general equitable principles.
5.04
    
Financial Information
.
56
\34414564.10
(a)
    
The consolidated balance sheets of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of April 3, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years then ended, audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP and set forth in the Borrowers fiscal year 2011 Form 10-K, a copy of which has been made available to each of the Lenders, present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years then ended in conformity with GAAP.
(b)
    
The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of October 2, 2011 and the related unaudited consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the six months then ended, set forth in the Borrowers October 2, 2011 Form 10-Q, a copy of which has been made available to each of the Lenders, present fairly, in all material respects, on a basis consistent with the financial statements referred to in
subsection (a)
of this Section except as disclosed in the Borrowers quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 2011, the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and their consolidated results of operations and cash flows for such six-month period (subject to normal year end adjustments and the absence of footnotes).
(c)
    
Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has occurred no change in the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries which would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.05
    
Litigation; Taxes
.
(a)
    
There are no suits, actions or proceedings pending, or to the knowledge of any member of the Borrowers legal department threatened, against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, the adverse determination of which is reasonably likely to occur, and if so adversely determined would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b)
    
The Borrower and each Subsidiary have filed all material tax returns which to the knowledge of the Borrowers Vice President - Taxes,
were required to be filed and have paid or have adequately provided for all taxes shown thereon to be due, including interest and penalties, except for (i) those not yet delinquent, (ii) those the nonpayment of which would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (iii) those being contested in good faith and adequately covered by reserves.
5.06
    
Margin Regulations
. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used in a manner which would violate, or result in a violation of, Regulation U.
5.07
    
Governmental Approvals
. No consent, approval, authorization, permit or license from, or registration or filing with, any Governmental Authority is required in connection with the making of this Agreement, with the exception of routine periodic filings made under the Exchange Act and the filing of International Capital Form CQ-1s.
5.08
    
Pari Passu Obligations
. Under applicable United States laws (including state and local laws) in force at the date hereof, the claims and rights of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent against the Borrower and any other Loan Party under any Loan Document will not be
57
\34414564.10
subordinate to, and will rank at least
pari passu
with, the claims and rights of any other unsecured creditors of the Borrower (except to the extent provided by bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws of general application relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors rights and by general principles of equity).
5.09
    
No Defaults
. The payment obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in respect of any Material Debt are not overdue (beyond any applicable grace period).
5.10
    
Full Disclosure
. All information furnished to the Lenders in writing prior to the date hereof in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby does not, collectively, contain any misstatement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein, taken collectively and in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading in any material respect on and as of the Closing Date.
5.11
    
ERISA
. Each member of the ERISA Group has fulfilled its obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan and is in substantial compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable material provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan. No member of the ERISA Group has (a) sought a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of the Code in respect of any Plan, (b) failed to make any contribution or payment to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or made any amendment to any Plan which, in either case has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security under ERISA or the Code, in an aggregate amount in excess of $150,000,000 or (c) incurred any liability in excess of $150,000,000 under Title IV of ERISA other than a liability to the PBGC for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA.
5.12
    
Environmental Matters
. The financial statements described in
Section 5.04
provide certain information regarding the current and potential obligations arising from various consent decrees, cleanup and abatement orders, and current or potential proceedings pertaining to actual or alleged soil and water contamination, disposal of hazardous wastes, and other environmental matters related to properties currently owned by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, previously owned properties, and other properties. Since April 3, 2011, environmental matters have not caused any Material Adverse Effect.
To the knowledge of the Borrower, ongoing operations at the Principal Properties are currently being conducted in substantial compliance with applicable Environmental Laws except to the extent that noncompliance would not be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
5.13
    
Taxpayer Identification Number
. The Borrowers true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on
Schedule 10.02
.
ARTICLE VI. AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit that is not Cash Collateralized shall remain outstanding, the Borrower shall:
58
\34414564.10
6.01
    
Information
. The Borrower will deliver to the Administrative Agent for each of the Lenders:
(a)
    
as soon as available and in any event within 45 days after the end of each of its first three quarterly accounting periods in each fiscal year, consolidated statements of earnings and cash flows of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries for the period from the beginning of such fiscal year to the end of such fiscal period and the related consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal period, all in reasonable detail (it being understood that delivery of such statements as filed with the SEC shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this subsection);
(b)
    
as soon as available and in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, consolidated statements of earnings and cash flows of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries for such year and the related consolidated balance sheets of the Borrower and the Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of such year, all in reasonable detail and accompanied by an opinion of independent public accountants of recognized standing selected by the Borrower as to such consolidated financial statements (it being understood that delivery of such statements as filed with the SEC shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this subsection);
(c)
    
promptly after their becoming available:
(i)
    
copies of all financial statements, stockholder reports and proxy statements that the Borrower shall have sent to its stockholders generally; and
(ii)
    
copies of all registration statements filed by the Borrower under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (other than registration statements on Form S-8 or any registration statement filed in connection with a dividend reinvestment plan), and regular and periodic reports, if any, which the Borrower shall have filed with the SEC (or any governmental agency or agencies substituted therefor) under Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, or with any national or international securities exchange (other than those on Form 11-K or any successor form);
(d)
    
from time to time, with reasonable promptness, but subject to restrictions imposed by applicable security clearance regulations, such further information regarding the business and financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as any Lender may reasonably request through the Administration Agent;
(e)
    
prompt notice of the occurrence of any Default; and
(f)
    
prompt notice of all litigation and of all proceedings before any governmental or regulatory agency pending (or, to the knowledge of the General Counsel of the Borrower, threatened) and affecting the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary, except litigation or proceedings which, the adverse determination of which is not reasonably likely to occur, or which, if so adversely determined, would not be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Each set of financial statements delivered pursuant to
clause (a)
or
clause (b)
of this
Section 6.01
shall be accompanied by a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer (which delivery may, unless the Administrative Agent, or a Lender requests executed
59
\34414564.10
originals, be by electronic communication including fax or email and shall be deemed to be an original authentic counterpart thereof for all purposes).
Information required to be delivered pursuant to
clauses (a)
,
(b)
or
(c)
above which is filed by the Borrower with the SEC shall be deemed to have been delivered (x) in the case of
clauses (a)
and
(b)
, on the date when so filed (it being understood that deemed delivery does not affect the requirement of a certificate as set forth in the preceding paragraph) and (y) in the case of
clause (c)
, on the date on which the Borrower provides notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly advise the Lenders of such notice) that such information has been posted on the Borrowers website on the Internet at the website address listed on the signature pages hereof, at
sec.gov/edaux/searches.htm
or at another website identified in such notice and accessible by the Lenders without charge;
provided
that (i) such notice may be included in a certificate delivered pursuant to the preceding paragraph and (ii) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of the information referred to in
clauses (a)
,
(b)
or
(c)
to the Administrative Agent for any Lender which requests such delivery.
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, 
Borrower Materials
) by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the 
Platform
) and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a 
Public Lender
) may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing, and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons securities. The Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked PUBLIC which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word PUBLIC shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials PUBLIC, the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (
provided
,
however
, that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section
10.07
); (y) all Borrower Materials marked PUBLIC are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated Public Side Information; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked PUBLIC as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated Public Side Information. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials PUBLIC.
6.02
    
Payment of Obligations
. The Borrower will pay and discharge, and will cause each Subsidiary to pay and discharge, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its income or profits, or upon any property belonging to it, prior to the date on which penalties attach thereto, and all lawful material claims which, if unpaid, might become a Lien upon the property of the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
provided
that neither the Borrower nor any such Subsidiary shall be required to pay any such tax, assessment, charge, levy or claim (a) the payment of which is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings, (b) not yet delinquent or (c) the non-payment of which, if taken in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
60
\34414564.10
6.03
    
Insurance
. The Borrower will maintain, and will cause each Restricted Subsidiary to maintain, insurance from responsible companies in such amounts and against such risks as is customarily carried by owners of similar businesses and properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary operates or, to the customary extent, self-insurance.
6.04
    
Maintenance of Existence
. The Borrower will preserve and maintain, and will cause each Restricted Subsidiary to preserve and maintain, its corporate existence and all of its rights, privileges and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, and conduct its business in an orderly, efficient and regular manner. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the termination of the business or corporate existence of any Restricted Subsidiary which in the judgment of the Borrower is no longer necessary or desirable, a merger or consolidation of a Restricted Subsidiary into or with the Borrower (if the Borrower is the surviving corporation) or another Restricted Subsidiary or any merger, consolidation or transfer of assets permitted by
Section 6.07
, as long as immediately after giving effect to any such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
6.05
    
Maintenance of Properties
. The Borrower will keep, and will cause each Restricted Subsidiary to keep, all of its properties necessary, in the judgment of the Borrower, in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted. Nothing in this
Section 6.05
shall prevent the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary from discontinuing the operation or maintenance, or both the operation and maintenance, of any properties of the Borrower or any such Restricted Subsidiary if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Borrower (or such Restricted Subsidiary), desirable in the conduct of its business.
6.06
    
Compliance with Laws
. The Borrower will comply, and will cause each Restricted Subsidiary to comply, with the requirements of all applicable laws, rules, regulations, and orders of any Governmental Authority, a breach of which would be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except where contested in good faith and by proper proceedings.
6.07
    
Use of Facility
. The Borrower will use the Letters of Credit and the proceeds of the Loans (a) to refinance any existing Indebtedness of the Borrower under the Existing Credit Agreement and (b) for any lawful corporate purposes.
6.08
    
Covenant to Guarantee Obligations; Release of Guaranty; Further Covenant to Guarantee
.
(a)
    
If, during the Guarantee Trigger Period, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries incurs any Indebtedness for borrowed money (including, without limitation, commercial paper obligations incurred after the Closing Date) in excess of $250,000,000 at any time in the aggregate above the amount of Indebtedness outstanding at any time pursuant to the Public Notes outstanding on the Closing Date,
and
such Indebtedness is Guaranteed by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (as applicable) (all such Indebtedness, whenever incurred and including without limitation the Public Notes outstanding on the Closing Date, collectively the 
Guaranteed Indebtedness
), then the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent upon such incurrence, and in the case of each such subsequent incurrence of Guaranteed Indebtedness, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days after receipt of such notice), cause each such Subsidiary that has Guaranteed, or is the
61
\34414564.10
borrower or obligor of, any such Guaranteed Indebtedness to (x) become a Guarantor (and Guarantee the Obligations of the Borrower hereunder) by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the Guaranty, and (y) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in
clauses (iii)
and
(iv)
of
Section 4.01(a)
and favorable opinions of counsel to such Subsidiary (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in
clause (x)
), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(b)
    
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, if at any time a Guarantor no longer Guarantees, or is the borrower or obligor under, as applicable, any Guaranteed Indebtedness, then, upon the request of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, such Guarantor shall be released from its obligations under its applicable Guaranty.
(c)
    
Upon (i) the payment and satisfaction in full of all Guaranteed Indebtedness and the release of each Guaranty provided thereunder, or (ii) the aggregate amount of Guaranteed Indebtedness equaling an amount that is less than or equal to $250,000,000, then the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Guarantor(s) (if any) shall be released from their obligations hereunder (the 
Guarantee Release
);
provided
,
however
, that, if, after any Guarantee Release but during the Guarantee Trigger Period, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries again incurs any Guaranteed Indebtedness in excess of $250,000,000 at any time in the aggregate, then the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days after receipt of such notice), cause each such Subsidiary that has Guaranteed, or is the borrower or obligor of, such Guaranteed Indebtedness to comply with the requirements set forth in
Section 6.08(a)
above in becoming a Guarantor hereunder.
ARTICLE VII. NEGATIVE COVENANTS
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit that is not Cash Collateralized shall remain outstanding, the Borrower shall not, nor shall any Loan Party (where applicable), directly or indirectly:
7.01
    
Mergers, Consolidations and Sales of Assets
.
(a)
    
The Borrower shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
(i)
    
the Borrower or another solvent corporation that is incorporated under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia is the surviving corporation of any such consolidation or merger or is the Person that acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety;
(ii)
    
if a Person other than the Borrower is the surviving corporation as described in
subsection (a)(i)
above or is the Person that acquires the property and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety, it shall expressly assume the performance of every covenant of this Agreement and of the Notes and any other Loan Documents on the part of the Borrower, as the case may be, to be performed or observed;
62
\34414564.10
(iii)
    
immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(iv)
    
if the Borrower is not the surviving corporation, the Borrower has delivered to the Administrative Agent an Officers Certificate and a legal opinion, upon the express instruction of the Borrower for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, each stating that such transaction complies with this Section and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
(b)
    
Upon any consolidation by the Borrower with, or merger by the Borrower into, any corporation described in
Section 7.01(a)(i)
or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Borrower substantially as an entirety to any corporation described in
Section 7.01(a)(i)
, such corporation into which the Borrower is merged or consolidated or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Borrower, under this Agreement with the same effect as if such corporation had been named as the Borrower herein, and thereafter, in the case of a transfer or conveyance permitted by
Section 7.01(a)
, the Borrower shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under each Loan Document.
(c)
    
No other Loan Party (other than the Borrower) shall consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless:
(i)
    
the Borrower, another Loan Party or another solvent corporation that is incorporated under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia is the surviving corporation of any such consolidation or merger or is the Person that acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of such Loan Party substantially as an entirety;
(ii)
    
if a Person other than the Borrower or another Loan Party is the surviving corporation as described in
subsection (c)(i)
above or is the Person that acquires the property and assets of such Loan Party substantially as an entirety, it shall expressly assume the performance of every covenant of any applicable Loan Document on the part of such Loan Party, as the case may be, to be performed or observed;
(iii)
    
immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(iv)
    
if the Borrower or another Loan Party is not the surviving corporation, the Borrower has delivered to the Administrative Agent an Officers Certificate and a legal opinion, upon the express instruction of the Borrower for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, each stating that such transaction complies with this Section and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
(d)
    
Upon any consolidation by any Loan Party with, or merger by any Loan Party into, any corporation described in
Section 7.01(c)(i)
or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of any Loan Party substantially as an entirety to any corporation described in
Section 7.01
63
\34414564.10
(c)(i)
, such corporation into which such Loan Party is merged or consolidated or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of such Loan Party, under the applicable Loan Documents with the same effect as if such corporation had been named as such Loan Party therein, and thereafter, in the case of a transfer or conveyance permitted by
Section 7.01(c)
, such Loan Party shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under each such Loan Document of which it is a party.
7.02
    
Limitation on Liens
. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its assets, now owned or hereafter acquired, securing any Indebtedness;
provided
,
however
, that the foregoing restrictions shall not apply to:
(a)
    
Liens on any assets owned by the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing at the date of this Agreement;
(b)
    
Liens on assets of a corporation or other entity existing at the time such corporation or other entity is merged into or consolidated with the Borrower or a Subsidiary (to the extent applicable, in accordance with
Section 7.01
) or at the time of a purchase, lease or other acquisition of the assets of a corporation or other entity as an entirety or substantially as an entirety by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, whether or not any indebtedness secured by such Liens is assumed by the Borrower or such Subsidiary;
(c)
    
Liens on assets of a corporation or other entity existing at the time such corporation or other entity becomes a Subsidiary;
(d)
    
Liens securing Indebtedness of a Subsidiary owing to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary;
(e)
    
materialmens, suppliers, tax or other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations which are not overdue or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings; and Liens arising by operation of law in favor of any lender to the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business constituting a bankers lien or right of offset in moneys of the Borrower or a Subsidiary deposited with such lender in the ordinary course of business;
(f)
    
Liens on assets existing at the time of acquisition of such assets by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, or Liens to secure the payment of all or any part of the purchase price of assets upon the acquisition of such assets by the Borrower or a Subsidiary or to secure any Indebtedness incurred or guaranteed by the Borrower or a Subsidiary prior to, at the time of, or within one year after the later of the acquisition, completion of construction (including any improvements on an existing asset) or commencement of full operation of such asset, which Indebtedness is incurred or guaranteed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price thereof or construction or improvements thereon, and which Indebtedness may be in the form of obligations incurred in connection with industrial revenue bonds or similar financings and letters of credit issued in connection therewith;
provided
,
however
, that in the case of any such acquisition, construction or improvement the Lien shall not apply to any asset theretofore owned by the Borrower or a Subsidiary, other than, in the case of any such construction or improvement, any theretofore unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or the improvement made is located;
64
\34414564.10
(g)
    
Liens in favor of any customer (including any Governmental Authority) to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments or performance pursuant to any contract or statute or to secure any related indebtedness or to secure Indebtedness guaranteed by a Governmental Authority;
(h)
    
Liens on cash or certificates of deposit or other bank obligations in an amount substantially equal in value (at the time such Liens are created) to, and securing, indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not in excess of $300,000,000 (or the equivalent amount in a different currency);
(i)
    
Liens equally and ratably securing the Loans and such Indebtedness;
provided
that the Required Lenders may, in their sole discretion, refuse to take any Lien on any asset (which refusal will not limit the Borrowers or any Subsidiarys ability to incur a Lien otherwise permitted by this
Section 7.02(i)
); such Lien may equally and ratably secure the Loans and any other obligation of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, other than an obligation that is subordinated to the Loans;
(j)
    
any extension, renewal or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals or replacements) in whole or in part of any Lien referred to in the foregoing;
provided
,
however
, that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so secured at the time of such extension, renewal or replacement, and that such extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or part of the asset which secured the Lien so extended, renewed or replaced (
plus
improvements and construction on such asset);
(k)
    
Liens arising out of the posting of cash collateral pursuant to
Section 2.17
or
Section 8.02
; and
(l)
    
Liens securing Indebtedness in an aggregate amount that, together, without duplication, with all other Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries that is secured by Liens not otherwise permitted under
subsections (a)
through
(j)
above (if originally issued, assumed or guaranteed at such time), does not at the time exceed, when added to Indebtedness of any Subsidiary permitted by
Section 7.04
during any period when the Obligations of the Borrower are not guaranteed by any Guarantor, the greater of (x) 10% of Stockholders Equity as of the end of the fiscal quarter preceding the date of determination and (y) $1,000,000,000.
This covenant shall not apply to any 
margin stock
 within the meaning of Regulation U in excess of 25% in value of the assets covered by this covenant. For the avoidance of doubt, the creation of a security interest arising solely as a result of, or the filing of UCC financing statements in connection with, any sale by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of accounts receivable not prohibited by
Section 7.01
shall not constitute a Lien prohibited by this covenant.
7.03
    
Leverage Ratio
. The Borrower will not permit, as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the ratio of (a) Indebtedness to (b) the sum of Indebtedness and Stockholders Equity, to exceed 65.0%.
7.04
    
Limitations on Subsidiary Indebtedness
.
During any period when the Obligations of the Borrower are not guaranteed by any Guarantor,
the Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except Indebtedness in an aggregate
65
\34414564.10
principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed, when added to other secured Indebtedness of the Borrower and any Subsidiary permitted by
Section 7.02(l)
and any other Indebtedness of the Borrower that is Guaranteed by any Subsidiary, the greater of (x) 10% of Stockholders Equity as of the end of the fiscal quarter preceding the date of determination or (y) $1,000,000,000 (the 
Priority Debt Basket
). For the avoidance of doubt, during the period from and including the Closing Date through the payment and satisfaction in full of all public note obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, the Public Notes as defined herein), the principal amount outstanding under such public notes shall count against the Priority Debt Basket above.
ARTICLE VIII. EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
8.01
    
Events of Default
. Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
(a)
    
the Borrower shall fail to pay the principal of any Loan when due or make a payment to reimburse any drawing under any Letter of Credit when required hereunder; or
(b)
    
the Borrower shall fail to pay within five days of the due date thereof any Facility Fee, any Letter of Credit fees or any interest on any Loan; or
(c)
    
the Borrower shall fail to pay within 30 days after written request for payment by any Lender acting through the Administrative Agent any other amount payable under this Agreement; or
(d)
    
the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any agreement contained in
Section 6.01(e)
or
Article VII
; or
(e)
    
the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement or the Guaranty (other than those covered by
clauses (a)
through
(d)
above) for 30 days after written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders; or
(f)
    
any representation or warranty made by the Borrower or any other Loan Party herein, in
Article V
of this Agreement or any certificate or writing furnished pursuant to this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made and such deficiency shall remain unremedied for five days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders; or
(g)
    
any Material Debt shall become due before stated maturity by the acceleration of the maturity thereof by reason of default, or any Material Debt shall become due by its terms and shall not be paid and, in any case aforesaid in this
subsection (g)
, corrective action satisfactory to the Required Lenders shall not have been taken within five days after written notice of the situation shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders;
or
(h)
    
the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary shall commence a voluntary case or other proceeding seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to itself or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment
66
\34414564.10
of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, or shall consent to any such relief or to the appointment of or taking possession by any such official in an involuntary case or other proceeding commenced against it, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall fail generally to pay its debts as they become due, or shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the foregoing; or
(i)
    
an involuntary case or other proceeding shall be commenced against the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief with respect to it or its debts under any bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect or seeking the appointment of a trustee, receiver, liquidator, custodian or other similar official of it or any substantial part of its property, and such involuntary case or other proceeding shall remain undismissed and unstayed for a period of 90 days; or an order for relief shall be entered against the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary under the federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect; or
(j)
    
a final judgment for the payment of money in excess of $150,000,000
(net of any amounts paid or fully covered by independent third party insurance as to which the relevant insurance company does not dispute coverage) shall have been entered against the Borrower or any Restricted Subsidiary, and the Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary shall not have satisfied the same within 60 days, or caused execution thereon to be stayed within 60 days, and such failure to satisfy or stay such judgment shall remain unremedied for five days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders; or
(k)
    
a final judgment either (1) requiring termination or imposing liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) under Title IV of ERISA in respect of, or requiring a trustee to be appointed under Title IV of ERISA to administer, any Plan or Plans having aggregate Unfunded Liabilities in excess of $150,000,000
or (2) in an action relating to a Multiemployer Plan involving a current payment obligation in excess of $150,000,000, which judgment, in either case, has not been satisfied or stayed within 60 days and such failure to satisfy or stay is unremedied for five days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of the Required Lenders; or
(l)
    
there occurs any Change of Control; or
(m)
    
any Guaranty of any material Loan Party (such materiality to be determined by the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion), at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Guaranty; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Guaranty, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Guaranty.
8.02
    
Remedies Upon Event of Default
. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
(a)
    
declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and
67
\34414564.10
obligation shall be terminated;
(b)
    
declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
(c)
    
require that the Borrower Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
(d)
    
exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under the Loan Documents;
provided
,
however
, that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
8.03
    
Application of Funds
. After the exercise of remedies provided for in
Section 8.02
(or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to
Section 8.02
), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall, subject to the provisions of
Sections 2.17
and
2.18
, be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
First
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under
Article III
) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuer and amounts payable under
Article III
), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause
Second
payable to them;
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause
Third
payable to them;
Fourth
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, L/C Borrowings and Obligations then owing under Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks and Cash Management Agreements, ratably among the Lenders, the L/C Issuer, the Cash Management Banks and the Hedge Banks in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause
Fourth
held by them;
68
\34414564.10
Fifth
, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit to the extent not otherwise Cash Collateralized by the Borrower pursuant to
Sections 2.04 and 2.17
; and
Last
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Subject to
Sections 2.04(c)
and
2.17
, amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause
Fifth
above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Obligations arising under Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks shall be excluded from the application described above if the Administrative Agent has not received written notice thereof, together with such supporting documentation as the Administrative Agent may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be. Each Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank not a party to this Agreement that has given the written notice contemplated by the preceding sentence shall, by such notice, be deemed to have acknowledged and accepted the appointment of the Administrative Agent pursuant to the terms of
Article IX
for itself and its Affiliates as if such Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank were a Lender party hereto.
ARTICLE IX. ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
9.01
    
Appointment and Authority
. Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and the Borrower shall not
have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.02
    
Rights as a Lender
. The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term Lender or Lenders shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.03
    
Exculpatory Provisions
. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without
69
\34414564.10
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
(a)    shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b)    shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents),
provided
that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
(c)    shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in
Sections 10.01
and
8.02
) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or the L/C Issuer.
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in
Article IV
or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
9.04
    
Reliance by Administrative Agent
. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may
70
\34414564.10
presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.05
    
Delegation of Duties
. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more subagents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such subagent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such subagent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such subagent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.06
    
Resignation of Administrative Agent
.
(a)    The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the 
Resignation Effective Date
), then the retiring Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above. Whether or not a successor has been appointed, such resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice on the Resignation Effective Date.
(b)    If the Person serving as Administrative Agent is a Defaulting Lender pursuant to
clause (d)
of the definition thereof, the Required Lenders may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, by notice in writing to the Borrower and such Person remove such Person as Administrative Agent and, in consultation with the Borrower, appoint a successor. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days (or such earlier day as shall be agreed by the Required Lenders) (the 
Removal Effective Date
), then such removal shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice on the Removal Effective Date.
(c)    With effect from the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date (as applicable)
(1) the retiring or removed
Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) except for any indemnity payments or other amounts then owed to the retiring or removed Administrative Agent,
all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above. Upon the
71
\34414564.10
acceptance of a successors appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or removed) Administrative Agent (other than as provided in
Section 3.07
and other than any rights to indemnity payments or other amounts owed to the retiring or removed Administrative Agent as of the Resignation Effective Date or the Removal Effective Date, as applicable), and the retiring or removed Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring
or removed Administrative Agents resignation
or removal hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and
Section 10.04
shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring or removed Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring or removed
Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
(d)    Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender. If Bank of America resigns as an L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to
Section 2.04(c)
.
If Bank of America resigns as a Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to
Section 2.05(c)
.
Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of Bank of America as the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as applicable. If a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender shall not be appointed within 30 days of such resignation, then an existing L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder shall assume the duties and obligations hereunder of Bank of America as such resigning L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as applicable, and (i) Bank of America as the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (ii) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America
with respect to such Letters of Credit.
9.07
    
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement,
72
\34414564.10
any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.08
    
No Other Duties, Etc
. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners, Arrangers or Syndication Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder.
9.09
    
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
. In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
(a)    to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under
Sections 2.04(h)
and
(i)
,
2.10
and
10.04
) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
(b)    to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under
Sections 2.10
and
10.04
.
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or the L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
9.10
    
Guaranty Matters
. The Lenders and the L/C Issuer irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to
Section 6.08
or if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.
9.11
    
Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts
. No Cash Management
73
\34414564.10
Bank or Hedge Bank that obtains the benefit of the provisions of
Section 8.03
,
Article X
or the Guaranty by virtue of the provisions hereof or of
Article X
or the Guaranty shall have any right to notice of any action or to consent to, direct or object to any action hereunder or under any other Loan Document other than in its capacity as a Lender hereunder and, in such case, only to the extent expressly provided in the Loan Documents. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Article IX
to the contrary, the Administrative Agent shall not be required to verify the payment of, or that other satisfactory arrangements have been made with respect to, Obligations arising under Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts unless the Administrative Agent has received written notice of such Obligations to the contrary, together with such supporting documentation as the Administrative Agent may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be.
ARTICLE X. MISCELLANEOUS
10.01
    
Amendments, Etc
. No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given;
provided
,
however
, that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
(a)
    
waive any condition set forth in
Section 4.01(a)
without the written consent of each Lender;
(b)
    
extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to
Section 8.02
) without the written consent of such Lender;
(c)
    
postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(d)
    
reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to
clause (iv)
of the second proviso to this
Section 10.01
) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document
without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
provided
,
however
, that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary (i) to amend the definition of Default Rate or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate or (ii) to amend any financial covenant hereunder (or any defined term used therein);
(e)
    
change
Section 8.03
in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
(f)
    
change any provision of this Section or the definition of Required Lenders or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; or
74
\34414564.10
(g)
    
release the Guarantors from the Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender, except to the extent the release of any Guarantor is permitted pursuant to
Section 9.10
(in which case such release may be made by the Administrative Agent acting alone);
and,
provided
further
, that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) the Fee Letters may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lenders), except that (x) the Commitment of any Defaulting Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender and (y) any waiver, amendment or modification requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than other affected Lenders shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
10.02
    
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
.
(a)
    
Notices Generally
. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in
subsection (b)
below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
(i)
    
if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on
Schedule 10.02
; and
(ii)
    
if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire (including, as appropriate, notices delivered solely to the Person designated by a Lender on its Administrative Questionnaire then in effect for the delivery of notices that may contain material non-public information relating to the Borrower).
Notices and other communications sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices and other communications sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices and other communications delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in
subsection (b)
below, shall
75
\34414564.10
be effective as provided in such
subsection (b)
.
(b)
    
Electronic Communications
. Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including email and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent,
provided
that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to
Article II
if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it,
provided
that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the senders receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the return receipt requested function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement),
provided
that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing
clause (i)
of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
(c)
    
The Platform
. THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED AS IS AND AS AVAILABLE. THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the 
Agent Parties
) have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrowers or the Administrative Agents transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party;
provided
,
however
, that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
(d)
    
Change of Address, Etc
. Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder
76
\34414564.10
by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the Private Side Information or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lenders compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the Public Side Information portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
(e)
    
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
.
The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
10.03
    
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies; Enforcement
. No failure by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any other Loan Document, the authority to enforce rights and remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents against the Loan Parties or any of them shall be vested exclusively in, and all actions and proceedings at law in connection with such enforcement shall be instituted and maintained exclusively by, the Administrative Agent in accordance with
Section 8.02
for the benefit of all the Lenders and the L/C Issuer;
provided
,
however
, that the foregoing shall not prohibit (a) the Administrative Agent from exercising on its own behalf the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (b) the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender from exercising the rights and remedies that inure to its benefit (solely in its capacity as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be) hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (c) any Lender from exercising setoff rights in accordance with
Section 10.08
(subject to the terms of
Section 2.14
), or (d) any Lender from filing proofs of claim or appearing and filing pleadings on its own behalf during the pendency of a proceeding relative to any Loan
77
\34414564.10
Party under any Debtor Relief Law; and
provided
,
further
, that if at any time there is no Person acting as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, then (i) the Required Lenders shall have the rights otherwise ascribed to the Administrative Agent pursuant to
Section 8.02
and (ii) in addition to the matters set forth in
clauses (b)
,
(c)
and
(d)
of the preceding proviso and subject to
Section 2.14
, any Lender may, with the consent of the Required Lenders, enforce any rights and remedies available to it and as authorized by the Required Lenders.
10.04
    
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
.
(a)
    
Costs and Expenses
. The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable outofpocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable outofpocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all outofpocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
(b)
    
Indemnification by the Borrower
. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Arranger, each Lender and the L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an 
Indemnitee
) against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents (including in respect of any matters addressed in
Section 3.01
), (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto;
78
\34414564.10
provided
that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitees obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c)
    
Reimbursement by Lenders
. To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under
subsection (a)
or 
(b)
of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lenders Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount,
provided
that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this
subsection (c)
are subject to the provisions of
Section 2.13(d)
.
(d)
    
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in
subsection (b)
above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(e)
    
Payments
. All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
(f)
    
Survival
. The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
10.05
    
Payments Set Aside
. To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such
79
\34414564.10
setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent,
plus
interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under
clause (b)
of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.06
    
Successors and Assigns
.
(a)
    
Successors and Assigns Generally
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (b)
of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (d)
of this Section or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of
subsection (f)
of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in
subsection (d)
of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b)
    
Assignments by Lenders
. Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this
subsection (b)
, participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it);
provided
that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
(i)
    
Minimum Amounts
.
(A)
    
in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lenders Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B)
    
in any case not described in
subsection (b)(i)(A)
of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such
80
\34414564.10
assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if Trade Date is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
provided
,
however
, that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
(ii)
    
Proportionate Amounts
. Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this
clause (ii)
shall not apply to rights in respect of Bid Loans or the Swing Line Lenders rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
(iii)
    
Required Consents
. No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by
subsection (b)(i)(B)
of this Section and, in addition:
(A)
    
the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to (x) a Lender, (y) an Affiliate of a Lender or (z) any other financial institution or Approved Fund that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business;
(B)
    
the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
(C)
    
the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
(D)
    
the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
(iv)
    
Assignment and Assumption
. The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500;
provided
,
however
, that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver
81
\34414564.10
to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
(v)
    
No Assignment to Certain Persons
. No such assignment shall be made (A) to the Borrower or any of the Borrowers Affiliates or Subsidiaries, (B) to any Defaulting Lender or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this
clause (B)
, or (C) to a natural person.
(vi)
    
Certain Additional Payments
. In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or subparticipations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans and participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable Law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to
subsection (c)
of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of
Sections 3.01
,
3.04
,
3.05
, and
10.04
with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with
subsection (d)
of this Section.
(c)
    
Register
. The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower (and such agency being solely for tax purposes), shall maintain at the Administrative Agents Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from
82
\34414564.10
time to time (the 
Register
). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. In addition, the Administrative Agent shall maintain on the Register information regarding the designation, and revocation of designation, of any Lender as a Defaulting Lender. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(d)
    
Participations
. Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrowers Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a 
Participant
) in all or a portion of such Lenders rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lenders participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it);
provided
that (i) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement;
provided
that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to
Section 10.01
that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of
Sections 3.01
,
3.04
and
3.05
to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of
Section 10.08
as though it were a Lender,
provided
such Participant agrees to be subject to
Section 2.14
as though it were a Lender.
(e)
    
Limitations upon Participant Rights
. A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under
Section 3.01
or
3.04
than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrowers prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of
Section 3.01
unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with
Section 3.01(e)
as though it were a Lender.
(f)
    
Certain Pledges
. Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank;
provided
that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
(g)
    
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
. Notwithstanding
83
\34414564.10
anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America or any other Lender that is an L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder (each, a 
Resigning Lender
), as applicable, assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to
subsection (b)
above, such Resigning Lender may, (i) upon 30 days notice to the Borrower and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days notice to the Borrower, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder;
provided
,
however
, that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of such Resigning Lender as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If such Resigning Lender resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to
Section 2.04(c)
). If such Resigning Lender resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to
Section 2.05(c)
. Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to such Resigning Lender to effectively assume the obligations of such Resigning Lender, as an L/C Issuer, with respect to such Letters of Credit.
10.07
    
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any Eligible Assignee invited to be a Lender pursuant to
Section 2.16(c)
or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For purposes of this Section, Information means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information
84
\34414564.10
that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary,
provided
that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws.
10.08
    
Right of Setoff
. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, the L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or the L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness;
provided
, that in the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any such right of setoff, (x) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.18
and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (y) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff. The rights of each Lender, the L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, the L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application,
provided
that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.09
    
Interest Rate Limitation
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the 
Maximum Rate
). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments
85
\34414564.10
and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.10
    
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in
Section 4.01
, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy or other electronic imaging means shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
10.11
    
Survival of Representations and Warranties
.
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
10.12
    
Severability
. If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this
Section 10.12
, if and to the extent that the enforceability of any provisions in this Agreement relating to Defaulting Lenders shall be limited by Debtor Relief Laws, as determined in good faith by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, as applicable, then such provisions shall be deemed to be in effect only to the extent not so limited.
10.13
    
Replacement of Lenders
.
If any Lender requests compensation under
Section 3.04
, if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to
Section 3.01
, if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, if any Lender is a Restricted Lender (as defined below) or if any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Borrower the right to replace a Lender as a party hereto, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by,
Section 10.06
), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume
86
\34414564.10
such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment),
provided
that:
(a)
    
the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in
Section 10.06(b)
;
(b)
    
such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to 100% of the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under
Section 3.05
) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
(c)
    
in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under
Section 3.04
or payments required to be made pursuant to
Section 3.01
, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter;
(d)
    
in the case of any such assignment by a Restricted Lender, the assignee must have approved in writing the substance of the amendment, waiver or consent which caused the assignor to be a Restricted Lender; and
(e)
    
such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
For the purposes of this
Section 10.13
, a 
Restricted Lender
 means a Lender that fails to approve an amendment, waiver or consent requested by the Loan Parties pursuant to
Section 10.01
that has received the written approval of not less than the Required Lenders but also requires the approval of such Lender.
In addition to the rights provided to the Borrower above, the Borrower may also terminate the unused amount of the Commitment of any Lender that is a Defaulting Lender upon not less than five Business Days prior notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof), and in such event the provisions of
Section 2.18(a)(ii)
will apply to all amounts thereafter paid by the Borrower for the account of such Defaulting Lender under this Agreement (whether on account of principal, interest, fees, indemnity or other amounts);
provided
that (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and (ii) such termination shall not be deemed to be a waiver or release of any claim the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any L/C Issuer, any Swing Line Lender or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
10.14
    
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
.
(a)
    
GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
87
\34414564.10
(b)
    
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
. THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c)
    
WAIVER OF VENUE
. THE BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
(d)
    
SERVICE OF PROCESS
. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN
SECTION 10.02
. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
10.15
    
Waiver of Jury Trial
.
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER
88
\34414564.10
LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.16
    
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
.
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers are arms-length commercial transactions between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower
or any of its
Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent
nor the Arrangers has any obligation to the Borrower
or any of its
Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower
and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower
or its Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Borrower hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
10.17
    
Electronic Execution of Assignments and Certain Other Documents
.
The words execution, signed, signature, and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption or in any amendment or other modification hereof (including waivers and consents) shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
10.18
    
USA PATRIOT Act
.
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the 
Act
), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, and any proposed Borrower hereunder, shall, promptly (and in the case of a proposed Borrower, reasonably in advance of becoming a Borrower hereunder) following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable know your customer, anti-money
89
\34414564.10
laundering and Office of Foreign Assets Control rules and regulations, including the Act.
[Signature Pages Follow]
90
\34414564.10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
By:
/s/ Steve Blackmore    
Name: Steve Blackmore
Title: Vice President and Treasurer
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
By:
/s/ Robert J. Rittelmeyer    
Name: Robert J. Rittelmeyer
Title: Vice President
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
as a Lender, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender
By:
/s/ Kenneth Beck    
Name: Kenneth Beck
Title: Director
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
,
as a Lender and L/C Issuer
By:
/s/ Susan T. Gallagher    
Name: Susan T. Gallagher
Title: Director
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
CITIBANK, N.A.
,
as a Lender and L/C Issuer
By:
/s/ Brian Reed     
Name: Brian Reed
Title: Managing Director
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK (USA)
By:
/s/ Leon Mo     
Name: Leon Mo
Title: Senior Vice President
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By:
/s/ Robert J. Ameny, Jr.     
Name: Robert J. Ameny, Jr.
Title: Vice President
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
By:
/s/ Philip K. Liebscher     
Name: Philip K. Liebscher
Title: Senior Vice President
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD.
By:
/s./ Victor Pierzchalski     
Name: Victor Pierzchalski
Title: Authorized Signatory
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
By:
/s/ Robert D. Bryant     
Name: Robert D. Bryant
Title: Vice President
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON
By:
/s/ Robert Besser     
Name: Robert Besser
Title: Managing Director
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
BANK OF CHINA, NEW YORK BRANCH
By:
/s/ Shiqiang Wu     
Name: Shiqiang Wu
Title: General Manager
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
BARCLAYS BANK PLC
By:
/s/ Mark Thompson     
Name: Mark Thompson
Title: Associate Vice President
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA
By:
/s/ Christopher Usas     
Name: Christopher Usas
Title: Director
Precision Castparts Corp.
Credit Agreement (2011)
Signature Page
\34414564
SCHEDULE 2.01
COMMITMENTS AND APPLICABLE PERCENTAGES
S-1
\34533436.7
SCHEDULE 10.02
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT'S OFFICE; CERTAIN ADDRESSES FOR NOTICES
BORROWER:
Precision Castparts Corp.
4650 S.W. Macadam Avenue, Suite 300
Portland, OR 97239
Attention: Treasurer
Telephone: (503) 946-4800
Telecopier: (503) 946-4814
Electronic Mail: sblackmore@precastcorp.com
Website Address: www.precast.com
U.S. Taxpayer Identification Number: 93-0460598
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:
Administrative Agents Office
(for payments and Requests for Credit Extensions):
Bank of America, N.A.
Building B
Mail Code: CA4-702-02-25
2001 Clayton Rd.
Concord, CA 94520-2405
Attention: Sue Pfohl
Telephone: (925) 675-8783
Telecopier: (888) 969-9267
Electronic Mail: sue.pfohl@baml.com
Account No.: 3750836479
Ref: Precision Castparts
ABA# 026009593
Other Notices as Administrative Agent
:
Bank of America, N.A. Agency Management
1455 Market St.
Mail Code: CA5-701-05-19
San Francisco, CA 94103-1399
Attention: Robert J. Rittelmeyer
Telephone: (415) 436-2616
Telecopier: (415) 503-5099
Electronic Mail: robert.j.rittelmeyer@baml.com
S-2
\34533436.7
L/C ISSUER:
Bank of America, N.A.
Trade Operations
1000 W. Temple St.
Los Angeles, CA 90012-1514
Attention: Teela Phuong Yung
Telephone: (213) 580-8363
Telecopier: (213) 457-8841
Electronic Mail: teela.p.yung@baml.com
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
Street Address: 401 Linden Street
Mail Code: D4004-030
City, State ZIP Code: Winston-Salem, NC  27101-4157
Attention: Trade Services-Standby Letter of Credit Center of Excellence      
Telephone: (800) 776-3862 opt #2
Telecopier: (336) 735-0952
Electronic Mail: Trade.CCUStandbys@wachovia.com
Citibank, N.A.
c/o Citicorp North America, Inc.
Street Address: 3800 Citibank Center, Bld B, 3
rd
Floor
City, State ZIP Code: Tampa, FL 33610
Attention: Standby Letter of Credit Department, LC Reference #
Telecopier: (813) 604-7187
SWING LINE LENDER:
Bank of America, N.A.
Building B
Mail Code: CA4-702-02-25
2001 Clayton Rd
Concord, CA 94520-2405
Attention: Sue Pfohl
Telephone: (925) 675-8783
Telecopier: (888) 969-9267
Electronic Mail: sue.pfohl@baml.com
Account No.: 3750836479
Ref: Precision Castparts
ABA# 026009593
S-3
\34533436.7
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
Street Address: 1700 Lincoln St. 5
th
Fl City, State ZIP Code: Denver, CO  80203
Attention: James Carpinelli, LSS
Telephone: (303) 863-5357
Telecopier: (303) 863-2729
Electronic Mail: denlclnsvmembersyndication@wellsfargo.com
Account No.: 00029690050720 (WLS  Denver)
Ref: Precision Castparts, 7267312803
ABA#: 121000248
S-4
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT A
FORM OF COMMITTED LOAN NOTICE
Date: ___________, _____
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Precision Castparts Corp.
,
an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer.
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
1.    On
    
(a Business Day).
2.    In the amount of $
    
.
3.    Comprised of
        
.
        [Type of Committed Loan requested]
4.    For Eurodollar Rate Loans: with an Interest Period of
    
months.
The Committed Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the provisos to the first sentence of
Section 2.01
of the Agreement.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
                
                        
                        
A-1
Form of Committed Loan Notice
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT B-1
FORM OF BID REQUEST
To:    Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer.
The Lenders are invited to make Bid Loans:
1.    On
    
(a Business Day).
2.    In an aggregate amount not exceeding $
    
(with any sublimits set forth below).
3.    Comprised of (select one):
o
Bid Loans based on an Absolute Rate    
o
Bid Loans based on Eurodollar Rate
The Bid Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the proviso to the first sentence of
Section 2.03(a)
of the Agreement.
B-1-1
Form of Bid Request
\34533436.7
The Borrower authorizes the Administrative Agent to deliver this Bid Request to the Lenders. Responses by the Lenders must be in substantially the form of
Exhibit B-2
to the Agreement and must be received by the Administrative Agent by the time specified in
Section 2.03
of the Agreement for submitting Competitive Bids.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
                        
B-1-2
Form of Bid Request
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT B-2
FORM OF COMPETITIVE BID
, ____
To:    Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30,
2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer.
In response to the Bid Request dated
    
, ____, the undersigned offers to make the following Bid Loan(s):
1.    Borrowing date:
    
(a Business Day).
__________________
*
Expressed in multiples of 1/100th of a basis point.
B-2-1
Form of Competitive Bid
\34533436.7
Contact Person:
    
Telephone:
    
[LENDER]
                        
******************************************************************************
THIS SECTION IS TO BE COMPLETED BY THE BORROWER IF IT WISHES TO ACCEPT ANY OFFERS CONTAINED IN THIS COMPETITIVE BID:
The offers made above are hereby accepted in the amounts set forth below:
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
B-2-2
Form of Competitive Bid
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT C
FORM OF SWING LINE LOAN NOTICE
Date: ___________, _____
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30,
2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer.
The undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Loan:
1.    On
    
(a Business Day).
2.    In the amount of $
    
.
The Swing Line Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the provisos to the first sentence of
Section 2.05(a)
of the Agreement.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
                        
                        
C-1
Form of Swing Line Loan Notice
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT D
FORM OF NOTE
                                            
                                            
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the 
Borrower
), hereby promises to pay to _____________________ or registered assigns (the 
Lender
), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer.
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in
Section 2.05(f)
of the Agreement with respect to Swing Line Loans, all payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agents Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. This Note is also entitled to the benefits of the Guaranty. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
D-1
Form of Note
\34533436.7
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
                        
                        
D-2
Form of Note
\34533436.7
LOANS AND PAYMENTS WITH RESPECT THERETO
D-3
Form of Note
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT E
FORM OF COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE
Financial Statement Date:
,
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2011 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the 
Agreement
; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer.
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the
                            
of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal
year-end
financial statements]
1.    The Borrower has delivered the year-end audited financial statements required by
Section 6.01(b)
of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal
quarter-end
financial statements]
1.    The Borrower has delivered the unaudited financial statements required by
Section 6.01(a)
of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date, which unaudited financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date.
2.    A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and, with respect thereto,
[select one:]
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned, during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
--or--
E-1
Form of Compliance Certificate
\34533436.7
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned, during such fiscal period the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
3.    The representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in
Article V
of the Agreement (other than
Sections 5.04(c)
,
5.05
,
5.11
and
5.12
) are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Compliance Certificate, the representations and warranties contained in
subsections (a)
and
(b)
of
Section 5.04
of the Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to
clauses (a)
and
(b)
, respectively, of
Section 6.01
of the Agreement, including the statements in connection with which this Compliance Certificate is delivered.
4.    The financial covenant analysis and information set forth on
Schedule 1
attached hereto is true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of
            
,
        
.
PRECISION CASTPARTS CORP.
                        
E-2
Form of Compliance Certificate
\34533436.7
For the Quarter/Year ended ___________________(
Statement Date
)
SCHEDULE 1
to the Compliance Certificate ($ in 000s)
Maximum permitted prior to requirement to Guarantee
Outstanding Guaranteed Indebtedness as of the Statement Debt
[
exceeds
][
does not exceed
]
1
$250,000
    
___________________________
1
Select as applicable.
E-3
Form of Compliance Certificate
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT F
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
This Assignment and Assumption (this 
Assignment and Assumption
) is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each]
2
Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] 
Assignor
) and [the][each]
3
Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] 
Assignee
). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
4
hereunder are several and not joint.]
5
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the 
Credit Agreement
), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignors][the respective Assignors] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, the Letters of Credit and the Swing Line Loans included in such facilities
6
) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to
clause (i)
above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to
clauses (i)
and
(ii)
above being referred to herein collectively as
[
the][an] 
Assigned Interest
). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
__________________
2
For bracketed language here and elsewhere in this form relating to the Assignor(s), if the assignment is from a single Assignor, choose the first bracketed language. If the assignment is from multiple Assignors, choose the second bracketed language.
3
For bracketed language here and elsewhere in this form relating to the Assignee(s), if the assignment is to a single Assignee, choose the first bracketed language. If the assignment is to multiple Assignees, choose the second bracketed language.
4
Select as appropriate.
5
Include bracketed language if there are either multiple Assignors or multiple Assignees.
6
Include all applicable subfacilities.
F-1
Form of Assignment and Assumption
\34533436.7
1.    
Assignor[s]
:    ______________________________
______________________________
2.    
Assignee[s]
:    ______________________________
______________________________
[for each Assignee, indicate [Affiliate][Approved Fund] of [
identify Lender
]]
6.    
Assigned Interest[s]
:
[7.    
Trade Date
:    __________________]
Effective Date: __________________, 20__ [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
__________________
7
List each Assignor, as appropriate.
8
List each Assignee, as appropriate.
9
Fill in the appropriate terminology for the types of facilities under the Credit Agreement that are being assigned under this Assignment (e.g. Revolving Credit Commitment, etc.).
10
Amounts in this column and in the column immediately to the right to be adjusted by the counterparties to take into account any payments or prepayments made between the Trade Date and the Effective Date.
11
Set forth, to at least 9 decimals, as a percentage of the Commitment/Loans of all Lenders thereunder.
12
To be completed if the Assignor and the Assignee intend that the minimum assignment amount is to be determined as of the Trade Date.
F-2
Form of Assignment and Assumption
\34533436.7
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
ASSIGNOR
[NAME OF ASSIGNOR]
By: _____________________________
Title:
ASSIGNEE
[NAME OF ASSIGNEE]
By: _____________________________
Title:
[Consented to and]
13
Accepted:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as
Administrative Agent
By: _________________________________
Title:
[Consented to:
By: _________________________________
Title:
Consented to:]
 
14
By: _________________________________
Title:
__________________
13
To be added only if the consent of the Administrative Agent is required by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
14
To be added only if the consent of the Borrower and/or other parties (e.g. Swing Line Lenders, L/C Issuers) is required
F-3
Form of Assignment and Assumption
\34533436.7
by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
F-4
Form of Assignment and Assumption
\34533436.7
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
Credit Agreement dated as of November 30, 2011, among Precision Castparts Corp., the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR
ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
1.    
Representations and Warranties
.
1.1.    
Assignor
. [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][[the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
1.2.    
Assignee
. [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
and
(v)
of the Credit Agreement (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
of the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type represented by [the][such] Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire [the][such] Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to
Section 6.01
thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
F-5
Form of Assignment and Assumption
\34533436.7
2.    
Payments
. From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to [the][the relevant] Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
3.    
General Provisions
. This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
F-6
Form of Assignment and Assumption
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT G
FORM OF GUARANTY
THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT
(this 
Guaranty Agreement
), dated as of
[
_______ __, 20__
]
, is made by
EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED
AND EACH OTHER PERSON WHO SHALL BECOME A PARTY HERETO BY EXECUTION OF A GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT
(each a 
Guarantor
 and collectively the 
Guarantors
) to
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A
., a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the 
Administrative Agent
) for each of the lenders (the 
Lenders
) now or hereafter party to the Credit Agreement defined below (collectively with the Administrative Agent, and certain other Persons parties to Swap Contracts and Cash Management Agreements as more particularly described in
Section 19
hereof, the 
Secured Parties
). All capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
W I T N E S S E T H
:
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement dated as of November 30, 2011, among Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), each lender from time to time party thereto (the 
Lenders
) and the Administrative Agent (as from time to time amended, modified, supplemented or restated, the 
Credit Agreement
), the Lenders have agreed to make Loans and other Credit Extensions to the Borrower upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein; and
WHEREAS
, each Guarantor is, directly or indirectly, a Subsidiary of the Borrower and will materially benefit from the Loans and other Credit Extensions made and to be made to the Borrower; and
WHEREAS
, certain additional extensions of credit may be made from time to time for the benefit of the Guarantors pursuant to certain Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks (each as defined in the Credit Agreement); and
WHEREAS
, each Guarantor is required to enter into this Guaranty Agreement pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS
, a material part of the consideration given in connection with and as an inducement to the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement by the Secured Parties was the obligation of the Borrower, upon the occurrence of certain factors set forth in
Section 6.08
of the Credit Agreement, to cause each Guarantor to enter into this Guaranty Agreement, and the Secured Parties are unwilling to continue to make Loans and other Credit Extensions to the Borrower under the Credit Agreement unless the Guarantors enter into this Guaranty Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE
, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.    
Guaranty
. Each Guarantor hereby jointly and severally, unconditionally, absolutely, continually and irrevocably guarantees to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties the payment and performance in full of the Borrowers Liabilities (as defined below). For all purposes of this Guaranty Agreement, 
Borrowers Liabilities
 means: (a) the Borrowers prompt payment in full, when due or declared due and at all such times, of all Obligations and all other amounts pursuant to the terms of the
G-1
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
Credit Agreement, the Notes, and all other Loan Documents heretofore, now or at any time or times hereafter owing, arising, due or payable from the Borrower to any one or more of the Secured Parties, including principal, interest, premiums and fees (including, but not limited to, those set forth in
Section 10.04(a)
of the Credit Agreement); (b) the Borrowers prompt, full and faithful performance, observance and discharge of each and every agreement, undertaking, covenant and provision to be performed, observed or discharged by the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and all other Loan Documents; and (c) the prompt payment in full by each Loan Party, when due or declared due and at all such times, of obligations and liabilities now or hereafter arising under Cash Management Agreement and Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks. The Guarantors obligations to the Secured Parties under this Guaranty Agreement are hereinafter collectively referred to as the 
Guarantors Obligations
 and, with respect to each Guarantor individually, the 
Guarantors Obligations
. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the liability of each Guarantor individually with respect to its Guarantors Obligations shall be limited to an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render its obligations hereunder subject to avoidance under Section 548
of the United States Bankruptcy Code or any comparable provisions of any applicable state law.
Each Guarantor agrees that it is jointly and severally, directly and primarily liable (subject to the limitation in the immediately preceding sentence) for the Borrowers Liabilities.
2.    
Payment
.    If the Borrower shall default in payment or performance of any of the Borrowers Liabilities, whether principal, interest, premium, fee (including, but not limited to, those set forth in
Section 10.04(a)
of the Credit Agreement), or otherwise, when and as the same shall become due, and after expiration of any applicable grace period, whether according to the terms of the Credit Agreement, by acceleration, or otherwise, or upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under the Credit Agreement, then any or all of the Guarantors will, upon demand thereof by the Administrative Agent, fully pay to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, subject to any restriction on each Guarantors Obligations set forth in
Section 1
hereof, an amount equal to all the Borrowers Liabilities then due and owing.
3.    
Absolute Rights and Obligations
. This is a guaranty of payment and not of collection. The Guarantors Obligations under this Guaranty Agreement shall be joint and several, absolute and unconditional irrespective of, and each Guarantor hereby expressly waives, to the extent permitted by law, any defense to its obligations under this Guaranty Agreement and all to which it is a party by reason of:
(a)    any lack of legality, validity or enforceability of the Credit Agreement, of any of the Notes, of any other Loan Document, or of any other agreement or instrument creating, providing security for, or otherwise relating to any of the Guarantors Obligations, any of the Borrowers Liabilities, or any other guaranty of any of the Borrowers Liabilities (the Loan Documents and all such other agreements and instruments being collectively referred to as the 
Related Agreements
);
(b)    any action taken under any of the Related Agreements, any exercise of any right or power therein conferred, any failure or omission to enforce any right conferred thereby, or any waiver of any covenant or condition therein provided;
(c)    any acceleration of the maturity of any of the Borrowers Liabilities, of the Guarantors Obligations of any other Guarantor, or of any other obligations or liabilities of any Person under any of the Related Agreements;
(d)    any release, exchange, non-perfection, lapse in perfection, disposal, deterioration in value, or impairment of any security for any of the Borrowers Liabilities, for any of the Guarantors Obligations of any Guarantor, or for any other obligations or liabilities of any Person under any of
G-2
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
the Related Agreements;
(e)    any dissolution of the Borrower or any Guarantor or any other party to a Related Agreement, or the combination or consolidation of the Borrower or any Guarantor or any other party to a Related Agreement into or with another entity or any transfer or disposition of any assets of the Borrower or any Guarantor or any other party to a Related Agreement;
(f)    any extension (including without limitation extensions of time for payment), renewal, amendment, restructuring or restatement of, any acceptance of late or partial payments under, or any change in the amount of any borrowings or any credit facilities available under, the Credit Agreement, any of the Notes or any other Loan Document or any other Related Agreement, in whole or in part;
(g)    the existence, addition, modification, termination, reduction or impairment of value, or release of any other guaranty (or security therefor) of the Borrowers Liabilities (including without limitation the Guarantors Obligations of any other Guarantor and obligations arising under any other Guaranty now or hereafter in effect);
(h)    any waiver of, forbearance or indulgence under, or other consent to any change in or departure from any term or provision contained in the Credit Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other Related Agreement, including without limitation any term pertaining to the payment or performance of any of the Borrowers Liabilities, any of the Guarantors Obligations of any other Guarantor, or any of the obligations or liabilities of any party to any other Related Agreement;
(i)    any other circumstance whatsoever (with or without notice to or knowledge of any Guarantor) which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risks of such Guarantor, or might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable defense available to, or discharge of, a surety or a guarantor, including without limitation any right to require or claim that resort be had to the Borrower or any other Loan Party or to any collateral in respect of the Borrowers Liabilities or Guarantors Obligations, other than the indefeasible payment in full of the Borrowers Liabilities and the Guarantors Obligations.
It is the express purpose and intent of the parties hereto that this Guaranty Agreement and the Guarantors Obligations hereunder and under each Guaranty Joinder Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances and shall not be discharged except by payment as herein provided or as provided in
Section 6.08
of the Credit Agreement.
4.    
Currency and Funds of Payment
. All Guarantors Obligations will be paid in lawful currency of the United States of America and in immediately available funds, regardless of any law, regulation or decree now or hereafter in effect that might in any manner affect the Borrowers Liabilities, or the rights of any Secured Party with respect thereto as against the Borrower, or cause or permit to be invoked any alteration in the time, amount or manner of payment by the Borrower of any or all of the Borrowers Liabilities.
5.    
Events of Default
. Without limiting the provisions of
Section 2
hereof, in the event that there shall occur and be continuing an Event of Default, then notwithstanding any collateral or other security or credit support for the Borrowers Liabilities, at the Administrative Agents election and without notice thereof or demand therefor, the Guarantors Obligations shall immediately be and become due and payable.
6.    
Subordination
. Until this Guaranty Agreement is terminated in accordance with
Section 22
hereof, each Guarantor hereby unconditionally subordinates all present and future debts, liabilities or obligations now or hereafter owing to such Guarantor (a) of the Borrower, to the payment in full of the
G-3
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
Borrowers Liabilities, (b) of every other Guarantor (an obligated guarantor), to the payment in full of the Guarantors Obligations of such obligated guarantor, and (c) of each other Person now or hereafter constituting a Loan Party, to the payment in full of the obligations of such Loan Party owing to any Secured Party and arising under the Loan Documents. All amounts due under such subordinated debts, liabilities, or obligations shall, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, be collected and, upon request by the Administrative Agent, paid over forthwith to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties on account of the Borrowers Liabilities, the Guarantors Obligations, or such other obligations, as applicable, and, after such request and pending such payment, shall be held by such Guarantor as agent and bailee of the Secured Parties separate and apart from all other funds, property and accounts of such Guarantor.
7.    
Suits
. Each Guarantor from time to time shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties, on demand, at the Administrative Agents place of business set forth in the Credit Agreement or such other address as the Administrative Agent shall give notice of to such Guarantor, the Guarantors Obligations as they become or are declared due, and in the event such payment is not made forthwith, the Administrative Agent may proceed to suit against any one or more or all of the Guarantors. At the Administrative Agents election, one or more and successive or concurrent suits may be brought hereon by the Administrative Agent against any one or more or all of the Guarantors, whether or not suit has been commenced against the Borrower, any other Guarantor, or any other Person and whether or not the Secured Parties have taken or failed to take any other action to collect all or any portion of the Borrowers Liabilities or have taken or failed to take any actions against any collateral securing payment or performance of all or any portion of the Borrowers Liabilities, and irrespective of any event, occurrence, or condition described in
Section 3
hereof.
8.    
Set-Off and Waiver
. Each Guarantor waives any right to assert against any Secured Party as a defense, counterclaim, set-off, recoupment or cross claim in respect of its Guarantors Obligations, any defense (legal or equitable) or other claim which such Guarantor may now or at any time hereafter have against the Borrower or any or all of the Secured Parties without waiving any additional defenses, set-offs, counterclaims or other claims otherwise available to such Guarantor. Each Guarantor agrees that each Secured Party shall have a lien for all the Guarantors Obligations upon all deposits or deposit accounts, of any kind, or any interest in any deposits or deposit accounts, now or hereafter pledged, mortgaged, transferred or assigned to such Secured Party or otherwise in the possession or control of such Secured Party for any purpose (other than solely for safekeeping) for the account or benefit of such Guarantor, including any balance of any deposit account or of any credit of such Guarantor with the Secured Party, whether now existing or hereafter established, and hereby authorizes each Secured Party from and after the occurrence of an Event of Default at any time or times with or without prior notice to apply such balances or any part thereof to such of the Guarantors Obligations to the Secured Parties then due and in such amounts as provided for in the Credit Agreement or otherwise as they may elect. Each Secured Party agrees promptly to notify the Borrower and the applicable Guarantor after any such set-off and application made by such Secured Party;
provided
,
however
, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off or application. For the purposes of this
Section 8
, all remittances and property shall be deemed to be in the possession of a Secured Party as soon as the same may be put in transit to it by mail or carrier or by other bailee.
9.    
Waiver of Notice; Subrogation
.
(a)    Each Guarantor hereby waives to the extent permitted by law notice of the following events or occurrences: (i) acceptance of this Guaranty Agreement; (ii) the Lenders heretofore, now or from time to time hereafter making Loans and other Credit Extensions and otherwise loaning monies or giving or extending credit to or for the benefit of the Borrower, whether pursuant to the Credit Agreement or the Notes or any other Loan Document or Related Agreement or any amendments, modifications, or supplements thereto, or replacements or extensions thereof; (iii) presentment,
G-4
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
demand, default, non-payment, partial payment and protest; and (iv) any other event, condition, or occurrence described in
Section 3
hereof. Each Guarantor agrees that each Secured Party may heretofore, now or at any time hereafter do any or all of the foregoing in such manner, upon such terms and at such times as each Secured Party, in its sole and absolute discretion, deems advisable, without in any way or respect impairing, affecting, reducing or releasing such Guarantor from its Guarantors Obligations, and each Guarantor hereby consents to each and all of the foregoing events or occurrences.
(b)    Each Guarantor hereby agrees that payment or performance by such Guarantor of its Guarantors Obligations under this Guaranty Agreement may be enforced by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties upon demand by the Administrative Agent to such Guarantor without the Administrative Agent being required, such Guarantor expressly waiving to the extent permitted by law any right it may have to require the Administrative Agent to (i) prosecute collection or seek to enforce or resort to any remedies against the Borrower or any other Guarantor or any other guarantor of the Borrowers Liabilities, or (ii) seek to enforce or resort to any remedies with respect to any security interests, Liens or encumbrances granted to the Administrative Agent or any Lender or other party to a Related Agreement by the Borrower, any other Guarantor or any other Person on account of the Borrowers Liabilities or any guaranty thereof,
IT BEING EXPRESSLY UNDERSTOOD, ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED TO BY SUCH GUARANTOR THAT DEMAND UNDER THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT MAY BE MADE BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, AND THE PROVISIONS HEREOF ENFORCED BY THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, EFFECTIVE AS OF THE FIRST DATE ANY EVENT OF DEFAULT OCCURS AND IS CONTINUING UNDER THE CREDIT AGREEMENT.
(c)    Each Guarantor further agrees with respect to this Guaranty Agreement that it shall have no right of subrogation, reimbursement, contribution or indemnity, nor any right of recourse to security for the Borrowers Liabilities unless and until 93 days immediately following the Facility Termination Date (as defined below) shall have elapsed without the filing or commencement, by or against any Loan Party, of any state or federal action, suit, petition or proceeding seeking any reorganization, liquidation or other relief or arrangement in respect of creditors of, or the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, trustee or conservator in respect to, such Loan Party or its assets. This waiver is expressly intended to prevent the existence of any claim in respect to such subrogation, reimbursement, contribution or indemnity by any Guarantor against the estate of any other Loan Party within the meaning of Section 101 of the Bankruptcy Code, in the event of a subsequent case involving any other Loan Party. If an amount shall be paid to any Guarantor on account of such rights at any time prior to termination of this Guaranty Agreement in accordance with the provisions of
Section 22
hereof, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Secured Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, to be credited and applied upon the Guarantors Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement or otherwise as the Secured Parties may elect. The agreements in this subsection shall survive repayment of all of the Guarantors Obligations, the termination or expiration of this Guaranty Agreement in any manner, including but not limited to termination in accordance with
Section 22
hereof, and occurrence of the Facility Termination Date. For purposes of this Guaranty Agreement, 
Facility Termination Date
 means the date as of which all of the following shall have occurred: (i) the Borrower shall have permanently terminated the credit facilities under the Loan Documents by final payment in full of all Outstanding Amounts, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and fees thereon, other than (A) the undrawn portion of Letters of Credit and (B) all letter of credit fees relating thereto accruing after such date (which fees shall be payable solely for the account of the applicable L/C Issuer and shall be computed (based on interest rates and the Applicable Rate
G-5
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
then in effect) on such undrawn amounts to the respective expiry dates of the Letters of Credit), in each case as have been fully Cash Collateralized or as to which other arrangements with respect thereto satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and such L/C Issuer shall have been made; (ii) all Commitments shall have terminated or expired; (iii) the obligations and liabilities of the Borrower and each other Loan Party under all Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks shall have been fully, finally and irrevocably paid and satisfied in full and the Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks shall have expired or been terminated, or other arrangements satisfactory to the counterparties shall have been made with respect thereto; and (iv) the Borrower and each other Loan Party shall have fully, finally and irrevocably paid and satisfied in full all of their respective obligations and liabilities arising under the Loan Documents, including with respect to the Borrower and the Obligations (except for future obligations consisting of continuing indemnities and other contingent Obligations of the Borrower or any Loan Party that may be owing to the Administrative Agent or any Related Party of the Administrative Agent or any Lender pursuant to the Loan Documents and expressly survive termination of the Credit Agreement).
10.    
Effectiveness; Enforceability
. This Guaranty Agreement shall be effective as of the date first above written and shall continue in full force and effect until termination in accordance with
Section 22
hereof. Any claim or claims that the Secured Parties may at any time hereafter have against a Guarantor under this Guaranty Agreement may be asserted by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties by written notice directed to such Guarantor in accordance with
Section 24
hereof.
11.    
Representations and Warranties
. Each Guarantor warrants and represents to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Guaranty Agreement (or the Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which it is a party, as applicable), and to perform its obligations under this Guaranty Agreement, that this Guaranty Agreement (or the Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which it is a party, as applicable) has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of such Guarantor by its duly authorized representatives; that this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which such Guarantor is a party) is legal, valid, binding and enforceable against such Guarantor in accordance with its terms except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and by general equitable principles; and that such Guarantors execution, delivery and performance of this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which such Guarantor is a party) do not violate or constitute a breach of any of its Organization Documents, any agreement or instrument to which such Guarantor is a party, or any law, order, regulation, decree or award of any governmental authority or arbitral body to which it or its properties or operations is subject.
12.    
Expenses
. Each Guarantor agrees to be jointly and severally liable for the payment of all reasonable fees and expenses (including, but not limited to, those set forth in
Section 10.04(a)
of the Credit Agreement) incurred by any Secured Party in connection with the enforcement of this Guaranty Agreement, whether or not suit be brought.
13.    
Reinstatement
. Each Guarantor (other than any Guarantor which has been released from its obligations hereunder pursuant to
Section 22
hereof and in accordance with
Section 6.08
of the Credit Agreement) agrees that this Guaranty Agreement shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, at any time payment received by any Secured Party in respect of any Borrowers Liabilities is rescinded or must be restored for any reason, or is repaid by any Secured Party in whole or in part in good faith settlement of any pending or threatened avoidance claim.
14.    
Attorney-in-Fact
. To the extent permitted by law, each Guarantor hereby appoints the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, as such Guarantors attorney-in-fact for the
G-6
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Guaranty Agreement and taking any action and executing any instrument which the Administrative Agent may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes hereof, which appointment is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable;
provided
, that the Administrative Agent shall have and may exercise rights under this power of attorney only upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default.
15.    
Reliance
. Each Guarantor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, that: (a) such Guarantor has adequate means to obtain on a continuing basis (i) from the Borrower, information concerning the Borrower and the Borrowers financial condition and affairs and (ii) from other reliable sources such other information as it deems material in deciding to provide this Guaranty Agreement and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement (
Other Information
), and has full and complete access to the Borrowers books and records and to such Other Information; (b) such Guarantor is not relying on any Secured Party or its or their employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, to provide any such information, now or in the future; (c) such Guarantor has been furnished with and reviewed the terms of the Credit Agreement and such other Loan Documents as it has requested, is executing this Guaranty Agreement (or the Guaranty Joinder Agreement to which it is a party, as applicable) freely and deliberately, and understands the obligations and financial risk undertaken by providing this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement); (d) such Guarantor has relied solely on the Guarantors own independent investigation, appraisal and analysis of the Borrower, the Borrowers financial condition and affairs, the Other Information, and such other matters as it deems material in deciding to provide this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement) and is fully aware of the same; and (e) such Guarantor has not depended or relied on any Secured Party or its or their employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, for any information whatsoever concerning the Borrower or the Borrowers financial condition and affairs or any other matters material to such Guarantors decision to provide this Guaranty Agreement (and any Guaranty Joinder Agreement), or for any counseling, guidance, or special consideration or any promise therefor with respect to such decision. Each Guarantor agrees that no Secured Party has any duty or responsibility whatsoever, now or in the future, to provide to such Guarantor any information concerning the Borrower or the Borrowers financial condition and affairs, or any Other Information, other than as expressly provided herein, and that, if such Guarantor receives any such information from any Secured Party or its or their employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, such Guarantor will independently verify the information and will not rely on any Secured Party or its or their employees, directors, agents or other representatives or Affiliates, with respect to such information.
16.    
Rules of Interpretation
. The rules of interpretation contained in
Article I
of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Guaranty Agreement and each Guaranty Joinder Agreement and are hereby incorporated by reference. All representations and warranties contained herein shall survive the delivery of documents and any extension of credit referred to herein or guaranteed hereby.
17.    
Entire Agreement
. This Guaranty Agreement and each Guaranty Joinder Agreement, together with the Credit Agreement and other Loan Documents, constitute and express the entire understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersede all prior negotiations, agreements, understandings, inducements, commitments or conditions, express or implied, oral or written, except as herein contained. The express terms hereof control and supersede any course of performance or usage of the trade inconsistent with any of the terms hereof. Except as provided in
Section 22
, neither this Guaranty Agreement nor any Guaranty Joinder Agreement nor any portion or provision hereof or thereof may be changed, altered, modified, supplemented, discharged, canceled, terminated, or amended orally or in any manner other than as provided in the Credit Agreement.
18.    
Binding Agreement; Assignment
. This Guaranty Agreement, each Guaranty Joinder Agreement and the terms, covenants and conditions hereof and thereof shall be binding upon and inure to
G-7
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
the benefit of the parties hereto and thereto, and to their respective heirs, legal representatives, successors and assigns;
provided
,
however
, that no Guarantor shall be permitted to assign any of its rights, powers, duties or obligations under this Guaranty Agreement, any Guaranty Joinder Agreement or any other interest herein or therein without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence of this
Section 18
, any Lender may assign to one or more Persons, or grant to one or more Persons participations in or to, all or any part of its rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement (to the extent permitted by the Credit Agreement); and to the extent of any such assignment or participation such other Person shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, thereupon become vested with all the benefits in respect thereof granted to such Lender herein or otherwise, subject, however, to the provisions of the Credit Agreement, including
Article IX
thereof (concerning the Administrative Agent) and
Section 10.06
thereof (concerning assignments and participations). All references herein to the Administrative Agent shall include any successor thereof.
19.    
Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks
. No Secured Party (other than the Administrative Agent) that obtains the benefit of this Guaranty Agreement by virtue of the provisions of this Section shall have, prior to the Facility Termination Date, any right to notice of any action or to consent to, direct or object to any action hereunder or under any other Loan Document or otherwise in respect of the Guarantors Obligations (including the release, impairment or modification of any Guarantors Obligations or security therefor) other than in its capacity as a Lender and, in such case, only to the extent expressly provided in the Loan Documents. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Guaranty Agreement to the contrary, the Administrative Agent shall only be required to verify the payment of, or that other satisfactory arrangement have been made with respect to, the Guaranteed Obligations arising under Cash Management Agreements and Swap Contracts with Hedge Banks to the extent the Administrative Agent has received written notice of such Obligations, together with such supporting documentation as it may request, from the applicable Cash Management Bank or Hedge Bank, as the case may be. Each Secured Party not a party to the Credit Agreement who obtains the benefit of this Guaranty Agreement by virtue of the provisions of this Section shall be deemed to have acknowledged and accepted the appointment of the Administrative Agent pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, and that with respect to the actions and omissions of the Administrative Agent hereunder or otherwise relating hereto that do or may affect such Secured Party, the Administrative Agent and each of its Related Parties shall be entitled to all the rights, benefits and immunities conferred under
Article IX
of the Credit Agreement.
20.    
Severability
. The provisions of this Guaranty Agreement are independent of and separable from each other. If any provision hereof shall for any reason be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof, but this Guaranty Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
21.    
Counterparts
. This Guaranty Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of this Guaranty Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart executed by the Guarantor against whom enforcement is sought.
22.    
Termination; Release of Guarantors
.
(a)    Subject to reinstatement pursuant to
Section 13
hereof, this Guaranty Agreement and each Guaranty Joinder Agreement, and all of the Guarantors Obligations hereunder (excluding those Guarantors Obligations relating to Borrowers Liabilities that expressly survive such termination) shall terminate without delivery of any instrument or performance of any act by any party on the Facility Termination Date.
G-8
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
(b)    With respect to the Guarantors Obligations of any Guarantor disposed of in accordance with the Credit Agreement, the Guarantor's Obligations of such Guarantor shall terminate upon the consummation of the disposition of such Guarantor in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.
(c)    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Guaranty Agreement, the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, if at any time a Guarantor no longer Guarantees, or is the borrower or obligor under, as applicable, any Guaranteed Indebtedness, then, upon the request of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, such Guarantor shall be released from its obligations under this Guaranty Agreement.
(d)    Upon (i) the payment and satisfaction in full of all Guaranteed Indebtedness and the release of each Guaranty provided thereunder, or (ii) the aggregate amount of Guaranteed Indebtedness equaling an amount that is less than or equal to $250,000,000, then the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Guarantor(s) (if any) shall be released from their obligations hereunder (the 
Guarantee Release
);
provided
,
however
, that, if, after any Guarantee Release but during the Guarantee Trigger Period, the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries again incurs any Guaranteed Indebtedness in excess of $250,000,000 at any time in the aggregate, then the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days after receipt of such notice), cause each such Subsidiary that has Guaranteed, or is the borrower or obligor of, such Guaranteed Indebtedness to comply with the requirements set forth in
Section 6.08(a)
of the Credit Agreement in becoming a Guarantor hereunder.
23.    
Remedies Cumulative; Late Payments
. All remedies hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent or any other Secured Party provided by law or under the Credit Agreement, the other Loan Documents or other applicable agreements or instruments. The making of the Loans and other Credit Extensions pursuant to the Credit Agreement shall be conclusively presumed to have been made or extended, respectively, in reliance upon each Guarantors guaranty of the Borrowers Liabilities pursuant to the terms hereof. Any amounts not paid when due under this Guaranty Agreement shall bear interest at the Default Rate.
24.    
Notices
. Any notice required or permitted hereunder or under any Guaranty Joinder Agreement shall be given, (a) with respect to each Guarantor, at the address of the Borrower indicated in
Schedule 10.02
of the Credit Agreement
and (b) with respect to the Administrative Agent or any other Secured Party, at the Administrative Agents address indicated in
Schedule 10.02
of the Credit Agreement. All such addresses may be modified, and all such notices shall be given and shall be effective, as provided in
Section 10.02
of the Credit Agreement for the giving and effectiveness of notices and modifications of addresses thereunder.
25.    
Joinder
.
Each Person who shall at any time execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a Guaranty Joinder Agreement substantially in the form attached as
Exhibit A
hereto shall thereupon irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally become a party hereto and obligated hereunder as a Guarantor, and all references herein and in the other Loan Documents to the Guarantors or to the parties to this Guaranty Agreement shall be deemed to include such Person as a Guarantor hereunder.
26.    
Governing Law; Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial
.
(a)    THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT AND EACH GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
(b)    EACH GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF
G-9
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR ANY L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST THE BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c)    EACH GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (b) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
(d)    EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN
SECTION 10.02
OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENT. NOTHING IN THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
(e)    EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT OR ANY GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (i) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (ii) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
G-10
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
    
[Signature page follows.]
G-11
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Guaranty Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A
., as Administrative
Agent
                    
 
G-12
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
GUARANTORS:
    [GUARANTOR]
    
                            
G-13
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT A
Form of Guaranty Joinder Agreement
GUARANTY JOINDER AGREEMENT
THIS
GUARANTY
JOINDER AGREEMENT
(the 
Guaranty Joinder Agreement
), dated as of _____________, 20__ is made by _______________________________, a ________________ (the 
Joining Guarantor
) pursuant to the terms of that certain Credit Agreement (as amended, supplemented or restated from time to time, the 
Credit Agreement
), dated as of November 30, 2011, by and among Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), each lender from time to time party thereto (the 
Lenders
) and the Administrative Agent (as defined therein). All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Credit Agreement.
WHEREAS,
the Joining Guarantor is a Subsidiary and required by the terms of the Credit Agreement to become a 
Guarantor
 under the Credit Agreement and be joined as a party to the Guaranty; and
WHEREAS,
the Joining Guarantor will materially benefit directly and indirectly from the credit facilities made available and to be made available to the Borrower by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE,
the Joining Guarantor hereby agrees as follows, for the benefit of the Secured Parties (as defined in the Guaranty and including any Lender or Affiliate of any Lender party to a Swap Contract or a Cash Management Agreement):
1.    
Joinder
.
The Joining Guarantor hereby irrevocably, absolutely and unconditionally becomes a party to the Guaranty as a Guarantor and bound by all the terms, conditions, obligations, liabilities and undertakings of each Guarantor or to which each Guarantor is subject thereunder, including without limitation the joint and several, unconditional, absolute, continuing and irrevocable guarantee to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties of the payment and performance in full of the Borrowers Liabilities (as defined in the Guaranty) whether now existing or hereafter arising, all with the same force and effect as if the Joining Guarantor were a signatory to the Guaranty.
2.    
Affirmations
. The Joining Guarantor hereby acknowledges and reaffirms as of the date hereof with respect to itself, its properties and its affairs each of the waivers, representations, warranties, acknowledgements and certifications applicable to any Guarantor contained in the Guaranty.
3.    
Severability
. The provisions of this Guaranty Joinder Agreement are independent of and separable from each other. If any provision hereof shall for any reason be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision hereof, but this Guaranty Joinder Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
4.    
Counterparts
. This Guaranty Joinder Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and it shall not be necessary in making proof of this Guaranty Joinder Agreement to produce or account for more than one such counterpart executed by the Joining Guarantor. Without limiting the foregoing provisions of this
Section 4
, the provisions of
Section 10.02(b)
of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Guaranty Joinder Agreement.
5.    
Delivery
. Joining Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives notice of acceptance of this Guaranty Joinder Agreement and acknowledges that the Borrowers Liabilities are and shall be deemed to be incurred, and credit extensions under the Loan Documents made and maintained, in reliance on this Guaranty Joinder
G-14
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
Agreement and the Guarantors joinder as a party to the Guaranty as herein provided.
6.
    
Governing Law; Venue; Waiver of Jury Trial
.
The provisions of
Section 26
of the Guaranty are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
    
[Signature page follows.]
G-15
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the Joining Guarantor has duly executed and delivered this Guaranty Joinder Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
JOINING GUARANTOR:
__________________________________________
By:_______________________________________
Name:    ____________________________________
Title:    ____________________________________
G-16
Form of Guaranty
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT H
FORM OF LETTERS OF CREDIT REPORT
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of November 30, 2011 (the 
Agreement
) among Precision Castparts Corp., an Oregon corporation (the 
Borrower
), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Swing Line Lender and an L/C Issuer, and Citibank, N.A., as an L/C Issuer. All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement.
This report is being delivered pursuant to
Section 2.04(k)
of the Agreement. Set forth in the table below is a description of each Letter of Credit issued by the undersigned and outstanding on the date hereof.
[APPLICABLE L/C ISSUER]
                        
                        
H-1
Letter of Credit Report
\34533436.7
EXHIBIT I
OPINION
See attached.
I-1
Opinion
\34533436.7


