FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20030716162304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS
     On July 16, 2003, SanDisk Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing the filing of a shelf registration statement on Form S-3. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     On July 3, 2003, a purported shareholder class action lawsuit was filed on behalf of United States holders of ordinary shares of Tower Semiconductor, Ltd., or Tower, as of the close of business on April 1, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Tower and certain of its directors and shareholders, including the Registrant and Eli Harari, the Registrant's President and CEO and a Tower board member, asserting claims arising under Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 14a-9 promulgated thereunder. The lawsuit alleges that Tower and certain of its directors made false and misleading statements in a proxy solicitation to Tower shareholders regarding a proposed amendment to a contract between Tower and certain of its shareholders, including the Registrant. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and attorneys' and experts' fees and expenses.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     See attached Exhibit Index.
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     On July 16, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release to report its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The information contained in this Item 9 is being furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." It is being furnished under Item 9 of this Form 8-K in accordance with interim guidance issued by the SEC in release No. 33-8216. The information contained herein and in the accompanying Exhibit 99.2 shall be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, where such incorporation is provided for, and shall be specifically incorporated by reference into our currently effective registration statements on Form S-3 and Form S-8. Except as provided in the previous sentence, the information in this Item 9, including Exhibit 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The furnishing of the information in this Item 9 (including Exhibit 99.2 hereto) shall not be deemed an admission that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the information in this Item 9 contains material information that is not otherwise publicly available.
     (c)  Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
- SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ: SNDK) announced today that it has filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission providing for the offering from time to time of shares of its common stock with an aggregate offering price of up to $500,000,000.
SUNNYVALE, CA, July 16, 2003
At the time any of the shares covered by the registration statement are offered for sale, a prospectus supplement will be provided containing specific information about the terms of any such offering.
SanDisk currently anticipates that the net proceeds from any sale of the shares will be used for general corporate purposes, including the investment in and development of new flash memory fabrication and test capacity, capital expenditures and acquisitions. However, SanDisk currently has no commitments or agreements for any specific acquisitions or investments that require additional capital.
SanDisk, the world's largest supplier of flash memory data storage card products, designs, manufactures and markets industry-standard, solid-state data, digital imaging and audio storage products using its patented, high density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is based in Sunnyvale, CA.
SanDisk's web site/home page address: http://www.sandisk.com
A registration statement relating to the shares has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission but has not yet become effective. The shares may not be sold nor may offers to buy be accepted before the time the registration statement becomes effective, nor may sales be effected in the absence of a definitive prospectus and a prospectus supplement setting forth the terms and conditions of any specific offering of the shares. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the shares in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to any registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
The matters discussed in this news release contain forward looking statements, including with respect to the company's potential offering and the use of net proceeds from any offering of common stock, that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as described under the caption, "Risk Factors" or "Factors That May Affect Future Results" in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The company assumes no obligation to update the information in this release.

 
Exhibit 99.2
     SUNNYVALE, CA, July 16, 2003  SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash memory data storage card products, today announced results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003. Total second quarter revenues grew 84% to $234.6 million compared to the second quarter of 2002 and increased 34% from the prior quarter of 2003. Second quarter net income was $41.3 million compared to $9.0 million and $24.9 million for the prior year's corresponding quarter and the first quarter of 2003, respectively. Earnings per share grew 300% for the second quarter of 2003 and were $0.52 per diluted share compared with $0.13 per diluted share in the same quarter of 2002. Earnings per share grew 58% sequentially compared to $0.33 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2003.
     "The second quarter was our best quarter ever for revenues and operating earnings. Megabytes and units sold in the quarter reflect record performance, far exceeding our internal forecasts. Demand for our products was exceptionally strong throughout the quarter from OEM and retail customers in all geographies. Current market demand is driven by strong sales of digital cameras as well as accelerating sales of camera cell phones, USB flashdrives and numerous other new applications for NAND flash. I am particularly pleased with our increasing penetration into the camera cell phone market, as well as our excellent internal execution in launching the miniSD card in the second quarter," said Eli Harari, President and CEO of SanDisk Corporation. "Current demand for NAND flash is exceeding the total industry supply, resulting in a relatively benign pricing environment as we enter the third quarter. I am optimistic about our business prospects in the second half of the year."
Q2 Financial Highlights
 
Exhibit 99.2
Q2 Business Highlights
Business Outlook
     Despite continued limited bookings visibility, we are optimistic about our business prospects in the second half of the year. In the third quarter, we are projecting continued strength in demand for our products in a relatively benign pricing environment fostered by industry-wide NAND flash memory capacity shortages. We are operating at 100% capacity utilization of our captive sources and maximizing our purchases from non-captive sources. Third quarter product revenues are expected to be capped at a level slightly higher than in the strong second quarter due to these capacity constraints. License and royalty revenues are expected to be approximately $18 million and operating expenses are projected to increase by approximately 12% sequentially. We project that third quarter product gross margins will be in the range of 28-32% which includes increased contribution from non-captive sources that typically generate lower product gross margins. The effective tax rate is forecast to increase to approximately 15% for the second half of the year. Share count changes will largely be a function of the average quarterly stock price. We expect our NAND flash supply availability from captive and non-captive sources to improve considerably in the fourth quarter, in time for the expected seasonally strong year-end.
Forward-Looking Statement
     This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including our business outlook, expectations for new product introductions, capacity, future product revenues, average selling prices, gross margins, operating margins and tax rates, that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others: fluctuations in operating results, yields and possible delays related to the start-up of .13 micron flash memory wafer production for FlashVision at the Yokkaichi facility in Japan, delays in qualification of some new .13
 
Exhibit 99.2
micron product components, any interruption of supply from the Yokkaichi facility, future average selling price erosion due to excess industry capacity, current global economic and geo-political conditions, the timely development, internal qualification and customer acceptance of new products such as the new miniSD, as well as new products that are based on the NAND and NAND/MLC .13 micron flash chips, fluctuations in royalty revenues, business disruption including reduced sales to our customers in the Pacific Rim that may arise from regional issues in Asia, further impairment of our investments in Tower Semiconductor Ltd. and UMC due to any further decline in stock valuations and the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, the Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on July 16, 2003, the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002. Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We assume no obligation to update the information contained in this release.
About SanDisk
     SanDisk Corporation, the world's largest supplier of flash memory data storage card products, designs, manufactures and markets industry-standard, solid-state data, digital imaging and audio storage products using its patented, high-density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is based in Sunnyvale, CA.
Additional Information
     SanDisk announced separately today the filing of a shelf registration statement for an equity offering of up to $500 million.
Conference Call
     SanDisk's second quarter 2003 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Wednesday, July 16th. The conference call is being webcast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial in number is (800) 946-0712. The call will also be available by telephone replay after 6:00 p.m. Pacific Time on July 16th through Sunday, July 20, 2003, by dialing (888) 203-1112 and entering the pass code 541797. A copy of this press release will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website.
 
Exhibit 99.2
 
Exhibit 99.2
*Information derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements.


