FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20031015072203.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REQUIRED FD DISCLOSURE.
     On October 15, 2003, SanDisk Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing a theft by an attorney at its Taiwanese law firm. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     See attached Exhibit Index.
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On October 15, 2003, the Registrant issued a press release to report its financial results for its third quarter ended September 28, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying Exhibit 99.2 shall be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, where such incorporation is provided for, and shall be specifically incorporated by reference into our currently effective registration statements on Form S-3 and Form S-8. Except as provided in the previous sentence, the information in this Item 12, including Exhibit 99.2 hereto, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     Late in the afternoon on October 14, 2003, SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ: SNDK) was advised by its Taiwanese law firm, Lee and Li, one of the largest law firms in Asia, that one of Lee and Li's senior associates had fraudulently sold, and misappropriated the proceeds from, approximately 121 million shares of SanDisk's United Microelectronics Corporation stock held by Lee and Li on behalf of SanDisk pursuant to a power of attorney. The current market value of the misappropriated shares is approximately $100 million. In a press release issued late yesterday in Taiwan by Lee and Li and in a separate written assurance, the firm stated that it will not let SanDisk suffer any loss as a result of its former employee's criminal acts. Both SanDisk and Lee and Li are vigorously investigating the incident. SanDisk is also investigating whether it is insured against any portion of this loss.
SUNNYVALE, CA, OCT. 15, 2003 
     SanDisk, the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, designs, manufactures and markets industry-standard, solid-state data, digital imaging and audio storage products using its patented, high density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is based in Sunnyvale, CA.
     The matters discussed in this news release contain forward looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties as described under the caption, "Factors That May Affect Future Results" in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include, among others, that Lee and Li may not repay SanDisk for its loss, that SanDisk is not insured against this loss, and that any loss that is not fully repaid may result in non-operating accounting charges in the periods corresponding to the dates of the fraudulent sales. The company assumes no obligation to update the information in this release.
SanDisk's web site/home page address: http://www.sandisk.com All trade names are either registered trademarks or trademarks of their respective holders.

 
Exhibit 99.2
     SUNNYVALE, CA, October 15, 2003  SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, today announced results for the third quarter ended September 28, 2003. Total third quarter revenues grew 99% to $281.4 million compared to the third quarter of 2002 and increased 20% sequentially. Third quarter net income was $50.6 million compared to $11.3 million and $41.3 million for the third quarter of 2002 and the second quarter of 2003, respectively. Earnings per share grew 275% for the third quarter of 2003 and were $0.60 per diluted share compared with $0.16 per diluted share in the same quarter of 2002. Earnings per diluted share grew 15% sequentially and reflect a tax rate of 35% compared to $0.52 per diluted share with a tax rate of 9% in the second quarter of 2003.
     "The third quarter was an outstanding operational quarter for SanDisk," said Eli Harari, President and CEO of SanDisk Corporation. "Bookings during the quarter were exceptionally strong for both our OEM and retail customers. We exceeded our expectations for third quarter product revenues and total megabytes shipped due to excellent execution in operations and the successful conversion to .13 micron technology. Product gross margins improved to 35% from 32% in the prior quarter due to the benign pricing environment, as well as higher margin contribution from the increasing sales of Secure Digital cards. For the first time we sold more than 10 million total cards during the quarter. In the fourth quarter, we expect to increase our flash shipments from new capacity coming on stream primarily from our FlashVision joint venture. We are also projecting seasonally strong demand for our products and a continuing benign pricing environment."
Q3 Financial Highlights
 
Q3 Business Highlights
Business Outlook
     We are optimistic about our business prospects in the fourth quarter of the year. We continue to expand our capacity and are maximizing our flash memory supply from both captive and non-captive sources. Following the trend of the previous two years, we expect that our fourth quarter will be seasonally strong in retail, and that our primary challenge will be to meet consumer demand for our products. Our 2003 total revenue is forecasted to exceed $1.0 billion, up from our September projection of $950 million. License and royalty revenues are projected to be approximately $24 million. Product gross margin is expected to be in the range of 32-36%, reflecting a continuing benign pricing environment, lower product costs from our captive .13 micron flash memory and higher flash memory costs from our non-captive sources. Operating expenses are forecasted to increase by approximately 13-15%. The effective tax rate is projected to be 20-22%. An increase in interest income is anticipated due to the proceeds from our underwritten public offering and our share count will increase by approximately 8.3 million shares. Additional share count changes will largely be a function of the average quarterly stock price.
Separate Announcement
     SanDisk separately announced today that it was advised late yesterday by its Taiwanese law firm, Lee and Li, one of the largest law firms in Asia, that one of Lee and Li's attorneys had fraudulently sold, and misappropriated the proceeds from shares of SanDisk's United Microelectronics Corporation stock held by Lee and Li on behalf of SanDisk pursuant to a power of attorney. The third quarter financial results included in this press release do not account for this theft. The amount of loss, if any, is not determinable at this time. Any amount that is not fully repaid may result in non-operating accounting charges in the periods corresponding to the dates of the fraudulent sales.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including our business outlook,
 
expectations for new product introductions, capacity, future product revenues, average selling prices, gross margins, operating margins and tax rates, that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others: fluctuations in operating results, yields and possible delays related to Toshiba's conversion to .13 micron technology, delays in qualification of new .13 micron product components, any interruption of supply from any of the semiconductor manufacturing facilities that supply products to us, particularly Toshiba's Yokkaichi facility, future average selling price erosion due to excess industry capacity, price increases from non-captive flash memory sources and third party subcontractors, current global economic and geo-political conditions, the timely development, internal qualification and customer acceptance of new products such as the new miniSD and Cruzer Mini, as well as new products that are based on the NAND and NAND/MLC .13 micron flash chips, fluctuations in royalty revenues, business interruption due to earthquakes or other natural disasters, particularly in areas in the Pacific Rim where we manufacture and assemble products, further impairment of our investments in Tower Semiconductor Ltd. and UMC due to any decline in stock valuations, losses related to the fraudulent sale of our UMC stock that may not be fully repaid and may result in accounting charges in the periods corresponding to the date of fraudulent sale, an increase in our fourth quarter tax rate if we recover and sell UMC shares in the fourth quarter, and the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, the prospectus filed on September 25, 2003, the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 29, 2003 and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2002. Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We assume no obligation to update the information contained in this release.
About SanDisk
     SanDisk Corporation, the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, designs, manufactures and markets industry-standard, solid-state data, digital imaging and audio storage products using its patented, high-density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is based in Sunnyvale, CA.
Conference Call
     SanDisk's third quarter 2003 conference call is scheduled for 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time, Wednesday, October 15, 2003. The conference call is being webcast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial in number is (800) 946-0713 or (719) 457-2642. The call will also be available by telephone replay after 8:30 a.m. Pacific Time on October 15, 2003 through Sunday, October 19, 2003, by dialing (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 and entering the pass code 599165. A copy of this press release will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website.
     SanDisk's web site / home page address: http://www.sandisk.com
     All trade names are either registered trademarks or trademarks of their respective holders.
 
 
*Information derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements.


