FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20050721163105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 21, 2005, SanDisk Corporation ("the Registrant") issued a press release to report its financial results for its second quarter ended July 3, 2005. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be "furnished" and therefore shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 21, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SUNNYVALE, CA, July 21, 2005  SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, today announced results for the second quarter ended July 3, 2005. Second quarter revenues increased 19% on a year-over-year basis to $515 million and increased 14% compared to the first quarter of 2005. Second quarter net income, which included $27 million from our portion of Fab 3 development costs, was $70.5 million compared to $70.6 million in the second quarter of 2004. Fully diluted earnings per share were $0.37, compared with $0.38 in the second quarter of 2004.
"We are very pleased with our second quarter results," said Eli Harari, SanDisk CEO. "SanDisk gained U.S. retail market share, and demand for high capacity cards grew at a surprisingly fast pace to an average retail card capacity of 496 megabytes. Demand for 1 gigabyte and higher capacity cards has been strong for the gaming market and our premium Ultra and Extreme lines. OEM bookings are robust, primarily from handset manufacturers that are bundling high capacity cards with new handsets that support music, video and higher megapixel cameras. We believe this trend may be a positive precursor for the long awaited handset card market acceleration in 2006. During the second quarter, we made steady progress towards qualifying our new 70-nanometer 8 gigabit NAND/MLC chip. We expect to complete internal qualification and start production of this highly cost-effective chip in the third quarter and reach volume output in the fourth quarter  in time for the anticipated increase in demand for high capacity cards for year-end holiday sales. We firmly believe that our 2005 investments in advanced technology and in large-scale 300 millimeter NAND/MLC fab capacity, coupled with our valuable IP assets and our strong balance sheet, position SanDisk well for 2006."
Financial Results and Highlights
 
SanDisk Corporation President and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Squawk Box", July 22, 2005 at approximately 5:40 a.m. PDT. Judy Bruner, SanDisk's Executive Vice President, Administration and CFO is scheduled to appear on Bloomberg TV's "Market Line", July 22, 2005 at approximately 10:45 p.m. PDT.
Scheduled Interviews
SanDisk's second quarter 2005 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. PDT, Thursday, July 21, 2005. The conference call will be web cast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial in number is (913) 981-5584. The call will also be available by telephone replay through Monday, July 25, 2005, by dialing (719) 457-0820 and entering the pass code 5024005. A copy of this press release will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
Conference Call
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business outlook, expectations for new product introductions, production schedules, market growth rates and customers and scheduled appearances by certain of our executives that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others: slower than expected growth in market demand for our products or a slower adoption rate for these products in current and new markets that we are targeting, slower than expected expansion of our global sales channels, fluctuations in operating results, unexpected yield variances and longer than expected low yields and other possible delays related to our conversion to 70-nanometer NAND flash technology or the ramp-up of the new 300-millimeter flash fabrication facility, unexpected delays in
Forward-Looking Statements
 
qualification, initial production or the ramp-up of volume production of our new 70-nanometer 8 gigabit NAND/MLC chip, any interruption of or delay in supply from any of the semiconductor manufacturing facilities that supply products to us, our inability to make additional planned smaller geometry conversions in a timely manner, future average selling price erosion that may be more severe than our expectations due to decreased demand or possible excess industry capacity of flash memory either from existing suppliers or from new competitors, price increases from non-captive flash memory sources and third-party subcontractors, higher than expected operating expenses, higher than anticipated capital equipment expenditures, adverse global economic and geo-political conditions, including adverse currency exchange rates and acts of terror, the timely development, internal qualification and customer acceptance of new products that are based on 70-nanometer NAND technology, fluctuations in license and royalty revenues, business interruption due to earthquakes or other natural disasters, particularly in areas in the Pacific Rim and Japan where we manufacture and assemble products, scheduled appearances by our executives could be cancelled or delayed by us or the network, and the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, the Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 2005 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
SanDisk is a trademark of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries.
 
 
 


