FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20050603160327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     At the 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of SanDisk Corporation (the "Registrant") held on May 27, 2005 (the "Annual Meeting"), the stockholders approved the SanDisk Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan and the various ancillary documents under the Plan are attached hereto and are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
     The Plan consists of three separate equity incentive programs: (i) the discretionary grant program under which eligible individuals may be granted options to purchase shares of the Registrant's common stock ("Common Stock") at the fair market value per share on the grant date or stock appreciation rights with a base price equal to the fair market value of the Common Stock on the grant date, (ii) the stock issuance program under which eligible persons may be issued shares of Common Stock pursuant to restricted stock awards, restricted stock units or other stock-based awards which vest upon completion of a designated service period or the attainment of pre-established performance milestones and (iii) the automatic grant program for the non-employee members of the Registrant's board of directors pursuant to which new and continuing non-employee board members are to receive grants (in the form of stock options and/or restricted stock or restricted stock units) automatically at periodic intervals over their period of board service. Participation in the discretionary grant and stock issuance programs is limited to employees of the Registrant and its subsidiaries, non-employee members of the Registrant's board of directors or the board of directors of any subsidiary, and consultants and other independent advisors in the service of the Registrant or any subsidiary
     5,700,000 shares of Common Stock have been initially reserved for issuance over the term of the Plan. The share reserve may be increased by up to an additional 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock to the extent any options outstanding under the Registrant's 1995 Stock Option Plan ("1995 Plan") or the Registrant's 1995 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan ("Directors Plan") at the time of the Annual Meeting subsequently expire or terminate unexercised. No participant in the Plan may receive option grants, stand-alone stock appreciation rights, direct stock issuances (whether vested or unvested) or other stock-based awards for more than 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock in any single calendar year, subject to adjustment for subsequent stock splits, stock dividends and similar transactions. The maximum number of shares which may be issued without cash consideration under the stock issuance program may not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Common Stock from time to time authorized for issuance under the Plan.
     The plan administrator will have full power and authority (subject to the express terms of the Plan) to select the individuals who are to receive awards under the discretionary grant and stock issuance programs and to determine the time or times when those awards are to be made, the number of shares and the vesting schedule applicable to each award and the remaining terms and conditions of each such award. The plan administrator will also have the discretionary authority to accelerate the vesting of any and all outstanding awards under the two programs. Awards under the automatic option grant program will be made in accordance with the express terms of that program, except for the limited authority of the plan administrator to determine the actual number of shares for which each such award is to be made, subject to the limitations of the program on the maximum number of shares for which awards may be made to new or continuing members of the Registrant's board of directors.
     On May 27, 2005, upon stockholder approval of the Plan at the Annual Meeting and pursuant to the terms of the automatic grant program and the limited discretion provided the plan administrator under such program, each non-employee member of the Registrant's board of directors (Irwin Federman, Catherine P. Lego, Michael E. Marks, Dr. James D. Meindl and Alan F. Shugart) was automatically granted a stock option for 6,250 shares of Common Stock with an exercise price of $26.09 per share, the fair market value per share of Common Stock on the grant date, and a restricted stock unit award covering an additional 2,500 shares of Common Stock. Both the stock option grant and the restricted stock unit award made to each non-employee board member will vest upon the earlier of (i) the director's completion of one year of board service measured from the May 27, 2005 grant date or (ii) such individual's continuation in board service through the day immediately preceding the date of the 2006 annual stockholders meeting. However, the shares subject to each award will immediately vest in full upon the individual's death or disability while a board member or upon the occurrence of certain changes in ownership or control during his or her period of board service.
     On May 27, 2005, subsequent to the Annual Meeting, the compensation committee of the Registrant's board of directors granted a stock option under the Plan for 200,000 shares of Common Stock to Dr. Eli Harari, the Registrant's President and Chief Executive Officer. The option grant has an exercise price of $26.09 per share and will become exercisable with respect to (i) 25% of the option shares upon Dr. Harari's completion of 1 year of service measured from the grant date and (ii) the
Table of Contents
balance of the option shares in successive equal quarterly installments upon his completion of each succeeding 3-month period of service over the 36-month period measured from the 1st anniversary of the grant date.
     At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders also approved the SanDisk Corporation 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the SanDisk Corporation 2005 International Employee Stock Purchase Plan pursuant to which 5,000,000 shares of Common Stock have been reserved in the aggregate for issuance pursuant to a broad-based employee stock purchase program for both U.S. and foreign employees of the Registrant and its subsidiaries.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 3, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
     
I. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
          This 2005 Stock Incentive Plan is intended to promote the interests of SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, by providing eligible persons in the Corporation's service with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest, or otherwise increase their proprietary interest, in the Corporation as an incentive for them to remain in such service.
          Capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the attached Appendix.
     
II. STRUCTURE OF THE PLAN
          A. The Plan shall be divided into three separate equity incentive programs:
                the Discretionary Grant Program under which eligible persons may, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be granted options to purchase shares of Common Stock or stock appreciation rights tied to the value of such Common Stock,
-
                the Stock Issuance Program under which eligible persons may, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be issued shares of Common Stock pursuant to restricted stock awards, restricted stock units or other stock-based awards which vest upon the completion of a designated service period or the attainment of pre-established performance milestones, or such shares of Common Stock may be issued through direct purchase or as a bonus for services rendered the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), and
-
                the Automatic Grant Program under which eligible non-employee Board members will automatically receive grants at designated intervals over their period of continued Board service.
-
          B. The provisions of Articles One and Five shall apply to all equity programs under the Plan and shall govern the interests of all persons under the Plan.
 
     
III. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN
          A. The Compensation Committee shall have sole and exclusive authority to administer the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs with respect to Section 16 Insiders. Administration of the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs with respect to all other persons eligible to participate in those programs may, at the Board's discretion, be vested in the Compensation Committee or a Secondary Board Committee, or the Board may retain the power to administer those programs with respect to all such persons. However, any discretionary option grants, stock appreciation rights, stock issuances or other stock-based awards for members of the Compensation Committee must be authorized by a disinterested majority of the Board.
          B. Members of the Compensation Committee or any Secondary Board Committee shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and may be removed by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of any Secondary Board Committee and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to such committee.
          C. Each Plan Administrator shall, within the scope of its administrative functions under the Plan, have full power and authority (subject to the provisions of the Plan) to establish such rules and regulations as it may deem appropriate for proper administration of the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs and to make such determinations under, and issue such interpretations of, the provisions of those programs and any outstanding options, stock appreciation rights, stock issuances or other stock-based awards thereunder as it may deem necessary or advisable. Decisions of the Plan Administrator within the scope of its administrative functions under the Plan shall be final and binding on all parties who have an interest in the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs under its jurisdiction or any stock option, stock appreciation right, stock issuance or other stock-based award thereunder.
          D. Service as a Plan Administrator by the members of the Compensation Committee or the Secondary Board Committee shall constitute service as Board members, and the members of each such committee shall accordingly be entitled to full indemnification and reimbursement as Board members for their service on such committee. No member of the Compensation Committee or the Secondary Board Committee shall be liable for any act or omission made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any option grant, stock appreciation right, stock issuance or other stock-based award thereunder under the Plan.
          E. Administration of the Automatic Grant Program shall be self-executing in accordance with the terms of that program, and no Plan Administrator shall exercise any discretionary functions with respect to any option grants or stock issuances made under that program, except that the Compensation Committee shall have the express authority to establish from time to time the specific number of shares to be subject to the initial and annual grants made to the non-employee Board members under such program.
 
     
IV. ELIGIBILITY
          A. The persons eligible to participate in the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs are as follows:
                    (i) Employees,
                    (ii) non-employee members of the Board or the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary, and
                    (iii) consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).
          B. The Plan Administrator shall have full authority to determine, (i) with respect to the grant of options or stock appreciation rights under the Discretionary Grant Program, which eligible persons are to receive such grants, the time or times when those grants are to be made, the number of shares to be covered by each such grant, the time or times when the grant is to become exercisable, the vesting schedule (if any) applicable to the granted option or stock appreciation right, the maximum term for which such option or stock appreciation right is to remain outstanding and the status of a granted option as either an Incentive Option or a Non-Statutory Option and (ii) with respect to stock issuances or other stock-based awards under the Stock Issuance Program, which eligible persons are to receive such issuances or awards, the time or times when the issuances or awards are to be made, the number of shares subject to each such issuance or award, the vesting and issuance schedules applicable to the shares which are the subject of such issuance or award and the consideration for those shares.
          C. The Plan Administrator shall have the absolute discretion either to grant options or stock appreciation rights in accordance with the Discretionary Grant Program or to effect stock issuances and other stock-based awards in accordance with the Stock Issuance Program.
          D. The individuals who shall be eligible to participate in the Automatic Grant Program shall be limited to (i) those individuals who first become non-employee Board members on or after the Plan Effective Date, whether through appointment by the Board or election by the Corporation's stockholders, and (ii) those individuals who continue to serve as non-employee Board members on or after the Plan Effective Date. A non-employee Board member who has previously been in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) shall not be eligible to receive a grant under the Automatic Grant Program at the time he or she first becomes a non-employee Board member, but shall be eligible to receive periodic grants under the Automatic Grant Program while he or she continues to serve as a non-employee Board member.
 
     
V. STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
          A. The stock issuable under the Plan shall be shares of authorized but unissued or reacquired Common Stock, including shares repurchased by the Corporation on the open market. The number of shares of Common Stock initially reserved for issuance over the term of the Plan shall be limited to five million seven hundred thousand (5,700,000) shares. The Plan shall serve as the successor to the two Predecessor Plans, and no further stock option grants shall be made under those Predecessor Plans on or after the Plan Effective Date. However, all options outstanding under the Predecessor Plans on the Plan Effective Date shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with their terms, and no provision of this Plan shall be deemed to affect or otherwise modify the rights or obligations of the holders of those options with respect to their acquisition of shares of Common Stock thereunder. To the extent any options outstanding under the Predecessor Plans on the Plan Effective Date expire or terminate unexercised, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to those expired or terminated options at the time of expiration or termination shall be added to the share reserve under this Plan and shall accordingly be available for issuance hereunder, up to a maximum of an additional ten million (10,000,000) shares.
          B. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued without cash consideration pursuant to the Stock Issuance Program shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Common Stock from time to time authorized for issuance under the Plan, including (without limitation): (i) any shares added to the Plan reserve by reason of the expiration or termination of outstanding options under the Predecessor Plans prior to exercise, (ii) any increases to the Plan reserve from time to time approved by the Corporation's stockholders and (iii) any adjustments to the authorized share reserve effected in accordance with Section V.E. of this Article One.
          C. No one person participating in the Plan may receive stock options, stand-alone stock appreciation rights, direct stock issuances (whether vested or unvested) or other stock-based awards (whether in the form of restricted stock units or other share-right awards) for more than one million (1,000,000) shares of Common Stock in the aggregate per calendar year.
          D. Shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding options or other awards made under the Plan shall be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan to the extent those options or awards expire or terminate for any reason prior to the issuance of the shares of Common Stock subject to those options or awards. Unvested shares issued under the Plan and subsequently forfeited or repurchased by the Corporation, at a price per share not greater than the original issue price paid per share, pursuant to the Corporation's repurchase rights under the Plan shall be added back to the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan and shall accordingly be available for subsequent reissuance. Should the exercise price of an option under the Plan be paid with shares of Common Stock, then the authorized reserve of Common Stock under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares for which that option is exercised, and not by the net number of shares issued under the exercised stock option.
 
If shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable under the Plan are withheld by the Corporation in satisfaction of the withholding taxes incurred in connection with the exercise of an option or stock appreciation right or the issuance of fully-vested shares under the Stock Issuance Program, then the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross number of shares issuable under the exercised stock option or stock appreciation right or the gross number of fully-vested shares issuable under the Stock Issuance Program, calculated in each instance prior to any such share withholding.
          E. If any change is made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made by the Plan Administrator to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities by which the share under the Plan may increase by reason of the expiration or termination of unexercised options under the Predecessor Plans, (iii) the maximum number and/or class of securities which may be issued without cash consideration under the Stock Issuance Program, (iv) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any one person may be granted stock options, stand-alone stock appreciation rights, direct stock issuances and other stock-based awards under the Plan per calendar year, (v) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which grants may subsequently be made under the Automatic Grant Program to new and continuing non-employee Board members, (vi) the number and/or class of securities and the exercise or base price per share in effect under each outstanding option or stock appreciation right under the Plan and (vii) the number and/or class of securities subject to each outstanding restricted stock unit or other stock-based award under the Plan and the issue price (if any) payable per share. Such adjustments to the outstanding options, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based awards are to be effected in a manner which shall preclude the enlargement or dilution of rights and benefits under those options, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based awards. The adjustments determined by the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding and conclusive.
          F. Outstanding awards granted pursuant to the Plan shall in no way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
 
     
I. OPTION TERMS
          Each option shall be evidenced by one or more documents in the form approved by the Plan Administrator; , however, that each such document shall comply with the terms specified below. Each document evidencing an Incentive Option shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions of the Plan applicable to such options.
provided
          A. .
Exercise Price
               1. The exercise price per share shall be fixed by the Plan Administrator; provided, however, that such exercise price shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the grant date.
               2. The exercise price shall become immediately due upon exercise of the option and shall, subject to the provisions of the documents evidencing the option, be payable in one or more of the forms specified below:
               (i) cash or check made payable to the Corporation,
               (ii) shares of Common Stock held for the requisite period (if any) necessary to avoid any resulting charge to the Corporation's earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date, or
               (iii) to the extent the option is exercised for vested shares, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which the Optionee shall concurrently provide instructions to (a) a brokerage firm (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in compliance with the Corporation's pre-clearance/pre-notification policies) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate exercise price payable for the purchased shares plus all applicable income and employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation by reason of such exercise and (b) the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm on such settlement date in order to complete the sale.
          Except to the extent such sale and remittance procedure is utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on the Exercise Date.
 
          B. Each option shall be exercisable at such time or times, during such period and for such number of shares as shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the documents evidencing the option. However, no option shall have a term in excess of seven (7) years measured from the option grant date.
Exercise and Term of Options
.
          C. .
Effect of Termination of Service
               1. The following provisions shall govern the exercise of any options granted pursuant to the Discretionary Grant Program that are outstanding at the time of the Optionee's cessation of Service or death:
               (i) Any option outstanding at the time of the Optionee's cessation of Service for any reason shall remain exercisable for such period of time thereafter as shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the documents evidencing the option, but no such option shall be exercisable after the expiration of the option term.
               (ii) Any option held by the Optionee at the time of the Optionee's death and exercisable in whole or in part at that time may be subsequently exercised by the personal representative of the Optionee's estate or by the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to the Optionee's will or the laws of inheritance or by the Optionee's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of that option.
               (iii) Should the Optionee's Service be terminated for Misconduct or should the Optionee otherwise engage in Misconduct while holding one or more outstanding options granted under this Article Two, then all of those options shall terminate immediately and cease to be outstanding.
               (iv) During the applicable post-Service exercise period, the option may not be exercised for more than the number of vested shares for which the option is at the time exercisable. No additional shares shall vest under the option following the Optionee's cessation of Service, except to the extent (if any) specifically authorized by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion pursuant to an express written agreement with the Optionee. Upon the expiration of the applicable exercise period or (if earlier) upon the expiration of the option term, the option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any shares for which the option has not been exercised.
               2. The Plan Administrator shall have complete discretion, exercisable either at the time an option is granted or at any time while the option remains outstanding, to:
               (i) extend the period of time for which the option is to remain exercisable following the Optionee's cessation of Service from the limited exercise period otherwise in effect for that option to such greater period of time as
 
the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate, but in no event beyond the expiration of the option term,
               (ii) include an automatic extension provision whereby the specified post-Service exercise period in effect for any option granted under this Article Two shall automatically be extended by an additional period of time equal in duration to any interval within the specified post-Service exercise period during which the exercise of that option or the immediate sale of the shares acquired under such option could not be effected in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws, but in no event shall such an extension result in the continuation of such option beyond the expiration date of the term of that option, and/or
               (iii) permit the option to be exercised, during the applicable post-Service exercise period, not only with respect to the number of vested shares of Common Stock for which such option is exercisable at the time of the Optionee's cessation of Service but also with respect to one or more additional installments in which the Optionee would have vested had the Optionee continued in Service.
          D. The holder of an option shall have no stockholder rights with respect to the shares subject to the option until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the exercise price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.
Stockholder Rights
.
          E. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretion to grant options which are exercisable for unvested shares of Common Stock. Should the Optionee cease Service while such shares are unvested, the Corporation shall have the right to repurchase any or all of those unvested shares at a price per share equal to the of (i) the exercise price paid per share or (ii) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock at the time of repurchase. The terms upon which such repurchase right shall be exercisable (including the period and procedure for exercise and the appropriate vesting schedule for the purchased shares) shall be established by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the document evidencing such repurchase right.
Repurchase Rights
.
lower
          F. . The transferability of options granted under the Plan shall be governed by the following provisions:
Transferability of Options
               (i) : During the lifetime of the Optionee, Incentive Options shall be exercisable only by the Optionee and shall not be assignable or transferable other than by will or the laws of inheritance following the Optionee's death.
Incentive Options
               (ii) . Non-Statutory Options shall be subject to the same limitation on transfer as Incentive Options, except that the Plan Administrator may structure one or more Non-Statutory Options so that the option may be assigned in whole or in part during the Optionee's lifetime to one or more Family Members of the Optionee or to a trust
Non-Statutory Options
 
established exclusively for one or more such Family Members, to the extent such assignment is in connection with the Optionee's estate plan or pursuant to a domestic relations order. The assigned portion may only be exercised by the person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to the assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in such documents issued to the assignee as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate.
               (iii) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Optionee may designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of his or her outstanding options under this Article Two (whether Incentive Options or Non-Statutory Options), and those options shall, in accordance with such designation, automatically be transferred to such beneficiary or beneficiaries upon the Optionee's death while holding those options. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred options subject to all the terms and conditions of the applicable agreement evidencing each such transferred option, including (without limitation) the limited time period during which the option may be exercised following the Optionee's death.
Beneficiary Designations
     
II. INCENTIVE OPTIONS
          The terms specified below shall be applicable to all Incentive Options. Except as modified by the provisions of this Section II, all the provisions of Articles One, Two and Five shall be applicable to Incentive Options. Options which are specifically designated as Non-Statutory Options when issued under the Plan shall be subject to the terms of this Section II.
not
          A. Incentive Options may only be granted to Employees.
Eligibility
.
          B. The aggregate Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant) for which one or more options granted to any Employee under the Plan (or any other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) may for the first time become exercisable as Incentive Options during any one calendar year shall not exceed the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000).
Dollar Limitation
.
               To the extent the Employee holds two (2) or more such options which become exercisable for the first time in the same calendar year, then for purposes of the foregoing limitations on the exercisability of those options as Incentive Options, such options shall be deemed to become first exercisable in that calendar year on the basis of the chronological order in which they were granted, except to the extent otherwise provided under applicable law or regulation.
          C. If any Employee to whom an Incentive Option is granted is a 10% Stockholder, then the exercise price per share shall not be less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date, and the option term shall not exceed five (5) years measured from the option grant date.
10% Stockholder
.
 
     
III. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
          A. . The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority, exercisable in its sole discretion, to grant stock appreciation rights in accordance with this Section III to selected Optionees or other individuals eligible to receive option grants under the Discretionary Grant Program.
Authority
          B. . Two types of stock appreciation rights shall be authorized for issuance under this Section III: (i) tandem stock appreciation rights ("Tandem Rights") and (ii) stand-alone stock appreciation rights ("Stand-alone Rights").
Types
          C. . The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and exercise of Tandem Rights.
Tandem Rights
               1. One or more Optionees may be granted a Tandem Right, exercisable upon such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish, to elect between the exercise of the underlying option for shares of Common Stock or the surrender of that option in exchange for a distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value (on the option surrender date) of the number of shares in which the Optionee is at the time vested under the surrendered option (or surrendered portion thereof) over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable for such vested shares.
               2. No such option surrender shall be effective unless it is approved by the Plan Administrator, either at the time of the actual option surrender or at any earlier time. If the surrender is so approved, then the distribution to which the Optionee shall accordingly become entitled under this Section III shall be made in shares of Common Stock valued at Fair Market Value on the option surrender date.
               3. If the surrender of an option is not approved by the Plan Administrator, then the Optionee shall retain whatever rights the Optionee had under the surrendered option (or surrendered portion thereof) on the option surrender date and may exercise such rights at any time prior to the of (i) five (5) business days after the receipt of the rejection notice or (ii) the last day on which the option is otherwise exercisable in accordance with the terms of the instrument evidencing such option, but in no event may such rights be exercised more than seven (7) years after the date of the option grant.
later
          D. . The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and exercise of Stand-alone Rights:
Stand-Alone Rights
               1. One or more individuals eligible to participate in the Discretionary Grant Program may be granted a Stand-alone Right not tied to any underlying option under this Discretionary Grant Program. The Stand-alone Right shall relate to a specified number of shares of Common Stock and shall be exercisable upon such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may establish. In no event, however, may the Stand-alone Right have a maximum term in excess of seven (7) years measured from the grant date. Upon exercise of the Stand-
 
alone Right, the holder shall be entitled to receive a distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the aggregate Fair Market Value (on the exercise date) of the shares of Common Stock underlying the exercised right over (ii) the aggregate base price in effect for those shares.
               2. The number of shares of Common Stock underlying each Stand-alone Right and the base price in effect for those shares shall be determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion at the time the Stand-alone Right is granted. In no event, however, may the base price per share be less than the Fair Market Value per underlying share of Common Stock on the grant date. In the event outstanding Stand-alone Rights are to be assumed in connection with a Change in Control transaction or otherwise continued in effect, the shares of Common Stock underlying each such Stand-alone Right shall be adjusted immediately after such Change in Control so as to apply to the number and class of securities into which those shares of Common Stock would have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had those shares actually been outstanding at that time. Appropriate adjustments to reflect such Change in Control shall also be made to the base price per share in effect under each outstanding Stand-alone Right, the aggregate base price shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of the outstanding Stand-alone Rights under the Discretionary Grant Program, substitute, for the securities underlying those assumed rights, one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in the Change in Control transaction.
provided
               3. Stand-alone Rights shall be subject to the same transferability restrictions applicable to Non-Statutory Options and may not be transferred during the holder's lifetime, except if such assignment is in connection with the holder's estate plan and is to one or more Family Members of the holder or to a trust established for the holder and/or one or more such Family Members or pursuant to a domestic relations order covering the Stand-alone Right as marital property. In addition, one or more beneficiaries may be designated for an outstanding Stand-alone Right in accordance with substantially the same terms and provisions as set forth in Section I.F of this Article Two.
               4. The distribution with respect to an exercised Stand-alone Right shall be made in shares of Common Stock valued at Fair Market Value on the exercise date.
               5. The holder of a Stand-alone Right shall have no stockholder rights with respect to the shares subject to the Stand-alone Right unless and until such person shall have exercised the Stand-alone Right and become a holder of record of the shares of Common Stock issued upon the exercise of such Stand-alone Right.
          E. . The provisions governing the exercise of Tandem and Stand-alone Rights following the cessation of the recipient's Service shall be substantially the same as those set forth in Section I.C of this Article Two for the options granted under the
Post-Service Exercise
 
Discretionary Grant Program, and the Plan Administrator's discretionary authority under Section I.C.2 of this Article Two shall also extend to any outstanding Tandem or Stand-alone Appreciation Rights.
F. Upon the exercise of any Tandem or Stand-alone Right under this Section III, the share reserve under Section V of Article One shall be reduced by the gross number of shares as to which such right is exercised, and not by the net number of shares actually issued by the Corporation upon such exercise.
Gross Counting
.
     
IV. CHANGE IN CONTROL/HOSTILE TAKE-OVER
          A. In the event of a Change in Control, each outstanding option or stock appreciation right under the Discretionary Grant Program shall automatically accelerate so that each such option or stock appreciation right shall, immediately prior to the effective date of that Change in Control, become exercisable as to all the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such option or stock appreciation right and may be exercised as to any or all of those shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock. However, an outstanding option or stock appreciation right shall become exercisable on such an accelerated basis if and to the extent: (i) such option or stock appreciation right is to be assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or is otherwise to continue in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction or (ii) such option or stock appreciation right is to be replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing at the time of the Change in Control on any shares as to which the option or stock appreciation right is not otherwise at that time exercisable and provides for subsequent payout of that spread in accordance with the same exercise/vesting schedule applicable to those shares or (iii) the acceleration of such option or stock appreciation right is subject to other limitations imposed by the Plan Administrator.
not
          B. All outstanding repurchase rights under the Discretionary Grant Program shall automatically terminate, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall immediately vest in full, in the event of a Change in Control, except to the extent: (i) those repurchase rights are to be assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or are otherwise to continue in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction or (ii) such accelerated vesting is precluded by other limitations imposed by the Plan Administrator.
          C. Immediately following the consummation of the Change in Control, all outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Discretionary Grant Program shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.
 
          D. Each option which is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Change in Control had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Change in Control. Appropriate adjustments to reflect such Change in Control shall also be made to (i) the exercise price payable per share under each outstanding option, the aggregate exercise price payable for such securities shall remain the same, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities available for issuance over the remaining term of the Plan (iii) the maximum number and/or class of securities by which the share reserve under this Plan may be increased by reason of the expiration or termination of unexercised options under the Predecessor Plans, (iv) the maximum number and/or class of securities which may be issued without cash consideration under the Stock Issuance Program and (v) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any one person may be granted stock options, stand-alone stock appreciation rights, direct stock issuances and other stock-based awards under the Plan per calendar year. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of the outstanding options under the Discretionary Grant Program, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction.
provided
          E. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those options or stock appreciation rights shall, immediately prior to the effective date of a Change in Control, become exercisable as to all the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to those options or stock appreciation rights and may be exercised as to any or all of those shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock, whether or not those options or stock appreciation rights are to be assumed in the Change in Control transaction or otherwise continued in effect. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more of the Corporation's repurchase rights under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those rights shall immediately terminate upon the consummation of the Change in Control transaction, and the shares subject to those terminated rights shall thereupon vest in full.
          F. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority to structure one or more outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those options or stock appreciation rights shall become exercisable as to all the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to those options or stock appreciation rights in the event the Optionee's Service is subsequently terminated by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period following the effective date of any Change in Control transaction in which those options or stock appreciation rights do not otherwise fully accelerate. In addition, the Plan Administrator may structure one or more of the Corporation's repurchase rights so that
 
those rights shall immediately terminate with respect to any shares held by the Optionee at the time of such Involuntary Termination, and the shares subject to those terminated repurchase rights shall accordingly vest in full at that time.
          G. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those options or stock appreciation rights shall, immediately prior to the effective date of a Hostile Take-Over, become exercisable as to all the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to those options or stock appreciation rights and may be exercised as to any or all of those shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock. In addition, the Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more of the Corporation's repurchase rights under the Discretionary Grant Program so that those rights shall terminate automatically upon the consummation of such Hostile Take-Over, and the shares subject to those terminated rights shall thereupon vest in full. Alternatively, the Plan Administrator may condition the automatic acceleration of one or more outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Discretionary Grant Program and the termination of one or more of the Corporation's outstanding repurchase rights under such program upon the subsequent termination of the Optionee's Service by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period following the effective date of such Hostile Take-Over.
          H. The portion of any Incentive Option accelerated in connection with a Change in Control or Hostile Take-Over shall remain exercisable as an Incentive Option only to the extent the applicable One Hundred Thousand Dollar ($100,000) limitation is not exceeded. To the extent such dollar limitation is exceeded, the accelerated portion of such option shall be exercisable as a Non-statutory Option under the Federal tax laws.
     
V. PROHIBITION ON REPRICING PROGRAMS
          The Plan Administrator shall not (i) implement any cancellation/regrant program pursuant to which outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Plan are cancelled and new options or stock appreciation rights are granted in replacement with a lower exercise price per share, (ii) cancel outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Plan with exercise prices per share in excess of the then current Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock for consideration payable in equity securities of the Corporation or (iii) otherwise directly reduce the exercise price in effect for outstanding options or stock appreciation rights under the Plan, without in each such instance obtaining stockholder approval.
 
     
I. STOCK ISSUANCE TERMS
          Shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program, either as vested or unvested shares, through direct and immediate issuances without any intervening option grants. Each such stock issuance shall be evidenced by a Stock Issuance Agreement which complies with the terms specified below. Shares of Common Stock may also be issued under the Stock Issuance Program pursuant to share right awards or restricted stock units which entitle the recipients to receive the shares underlying those awards or units upon the attainment of designated performance goals or the satisfaction of specified Service requirements or upon the expiration of a designated time period following the vesting of those awards or units.
          The maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued without cash consideration under the Stock Issuance Program (whether as direct stock issuances or pursuant to restricted stock units or other share-right awards) may not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Common Stock from time to time authorized for issuance under the Plan, including (without limitation): (i) any shares added to the Plan reserve by reason of the expiration or termination of outstanding options under the Predecessor Plans prior to exercise, (ii) any increases to the Plan reserve from time to time approved by the Corporation's stockholders and (iii) any adjustments to the authorized share reserve effected in accordance with Section V.E. of Article One.
          A. .
Issue Price
               1. The issue price per share shall be fixed by the Plan Administrator, but shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the issuance date.
               2. Shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program for any of the following items of consideration which the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate in each individual instance:
               (i) cash or check made payable to the Corporation,
               (ii) past services rendered to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary); or
               (iii) any other valid consideration under the Delaware General Corporation Law.
 
          B. .
Vesting Provisions
               1. Shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be fully and immediately vested upon issuance or may vest in one or more installments over the Participant's period of Service or upon the attainment of specified performance objectives. The elements of the vesting schedule applicable to any unvested shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and incorporated into the Stock Issuance Agreement. Shares of Common Stock may also be issued under the Stock Issuance Program pursuant to share right awards or restricted stock units which entitle the recipients to receive the shares underlying those awards or units upon the attainment of designated performance goals or the satisfaction of specified Service requirements or upon the expiration of a designated time period following the vesting of those awards or units, including (without limitation) a deferred distribution date following the termination of the Participant's Service.
               2. The Plan Administrator shall also have the discretionary authority, consistent with Code Section 162(m), to structure one or more stock issuances or restricted stock unit or share right awards so that the shares of Common Stock subject to those issuances or awards shall vest (or vest and become issuable) upon the achievement of certain pre-established corporate performance goals based on one or more of the following criteria: (1) return on total stockholder equity; (2) earnings per share of Common Stock; (3) net income or operating income (before or after taxes); (4) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (5) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and charges for stock-based compensation, (6) sales or revenue targets; (7) return on assets, capital or investment; (8) cash flow; (9) market share; (10) cost reduction goals; (11) budget comparisons; (12) measures of customer satisfaction; (13) any combination of, or a specified increase in, any of the foregoing; (14) new product development or successful completion of research and development projects; and (15) the formation of joint ventures, research or development collaborations, or the completion of other corporate transactions intended to enhance the Corporation's revenue or profitability or enhance its customer base. In addition, such performance goals may be based upon the attainment of specified levels of the Corporation's performance under one or more of the measures described above relative to the performance of other entities and may also be based on the performance of any of the Corporation's business units or divisions or any Parent or Subsidiary. Performance goals may include a minimum threshold level of performance below which no award will be earned, levels of performance at which specified portions of an award will be earned and a maximum level of performance at which an award will be fully earned.
               3. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property (including money paid other than as a regular cash dividend) which the Participant may have the right to receive with respect to the Participant's unvested shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's
 
receipt of consideration shall be issued subject to (i) the same vesting requirements applicable to the Participant's unvested shares of Common Stock and (ii) such escrow arrangements as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate.
               4. The Participant shall have full stockholder rights with respect to any shares of Common Stock issued to the Participant under the Stock Issuance Program, whether or not the Participant's interest in those shares is vested. Accordingly, the Participant shall have the right to vote such shares and to receive any dividends paid on such shares, subject to any applicable vesting requirements. The Participant shall not have any stockholder rights with respect to the shares of Common Stock subject to a restricted stock unit or share right award until that award vests and the shares of Common Stock are actually issued thereunder. However, dividend-equivalent units may be paid or credited, either in cash or in actual or phantom shares of Common Stock, on outstanding restricted stock unit or share right awards, subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate.
               5. Should the Participant cease to remain in Service while holding one or more unvested shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program or should the performance objectives not be attained with respect to one or more such unvested shares of Common Stock, then those shares shall be immediately surrendered to the Corporation for cancellation, and the Participant shall have no further stockholder rights with respect to those shares. To the extent the surrendered shares were previously issued to the Participant for consideration paid in cash or cash equivalent, the Corporation shall repay to the Participant the of (i) the cash consideration paid for the surrendered shares or (ii) the Fair Market Value of those shares at the time of cancellation.
lower
               6. The Plan Administrator may in its discretion waive the surrender and cancellation of one or more unvested shares of Common Stock which would otherwise occur upon the cessation of the Participant's Service or the non-attainment of the performance objectives applicable to those shares. Any such waiver shall result in the immediate vesting of the Participant's interest in the shares of Common Stock as to which the waiver applies. Such waiver may be effected at any time, whether before or after the Participant's cessation of Service or the attainment or non-attainment of the applicable performance objectives. However, no vesting requirements tied to the attainment of performance objectives may be waived with respect to shares which were intended at the time of issuance to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), except in the event of the Participant's Involuntary Termination or as otherwise provided in Section II of this Article Three.
               7. Outstanding share right awards or restricted stock units under the Stock Issuance Program shall automatically terminate, and no shares of Common Stock shall actually be issued in satisfaction of those awards or units, if the performance goals or Service requirements established for such awards or units are not attained or satisfied. The Plan Administrator, however, shall have the discretionary authority to issue vested shares of Common Stock under one or more outstanding share right awards or restricted stock units as to which the designated performance goals or Service requirements have not been attained or satisfied.
 
However, no vesting requirements tied to the attainment of performance goals may be waived with respect to awards or units which were intended, at the time those awards or units were granted, to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), except in the event of the Participant's Involuntary Termination or as otherwise provided in Section II of this Article Three.
     
II. CHANGE IN CONTROL/HOSTILE TAKE-OVER
          A. All of the Corporation's outstanding repurchase rights under the Stock Issuance Program shall terminate automatically, and all the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Change in Control, except to the extent (i) those repurchase rights are to be assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or are otherwise to continue in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction or (ii) such accelerated vesting is precluded by other limitations imposed in the Stock Issuance Agreement.
          B. Each outstanding restricted stock unit or share right award assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect shall be adjusted immediately after the consummation of that Change in Control so as to apply to the number and class of securities into which the shares of Common Stock subject to the award immediately prior to the Change in Control would have been converted in consummation of such Change in Control had those shares actually been outstanding at that time, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the consideration (if any) payable per share thereunder, provided the aggregate amount of such consideration shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of the outstanding restricted stock units or share right awards, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction.
          C. If any such restricted stock unit or share right award is not assumed or otherwise continued in effect or replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the Fair Market Value of the underlying shares of Common Stock at the time of the Change in Control and provides for the subsequent payout of that value in accordance with the same vesting schedule applicable to those shares, then such unit or award shall vest, and the shares of Common Stock subject to that unit or award shall be issued as fully-vested shares, immediately prior to the consummation of the Change in Control.
          D. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority to structure one or more unvested stock issuances or one or more restricted stock unit or other share right awards under the Stock Issuance Program so that the shares of Common Stock subject to those issuances or awards shall automatically vest (or vest and become issuable) in whole or in part immediately upon the occurrence of a Change in Control or upon the subsequent termination of the Participant's Service by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period following the effective date of that Change in Control transaction.
 
          E. The Plan Administrator shall also have the discretionary authority to structure one or more unvested stock issuances or one or more restricted stock unit or other share right awards under the Stock Issuance Program so that the shares of Common Stock subject to those issuances or awards shall automatically vest (or vest and become issuable) in whole or in part immediately upon the occurrence of a Hostile Take-Over or upon the subsequent termination of the Participant's Service by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period following the effective date of that Hostile Take-Over.
          F. The Plan Administrator's authority under Paragraphs D and E of this Section II shall also extend to any stock issuances, restricted stock units or other share right awards intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), even though the automatic vesting of those issuances, units or awards pursuant to Paragraph D or E of this Section II may result in their loss of performance-based status under Code Section 162(m).
 
I. OPTION TERMS
          A. The Automatic Grant Program under this Article Four shall supersede and replace the Corporation's 1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, and no further stock option grants shall be made under that plan on or after the Plan Effective Date. However, all options outstanding under that plan on the Plan Effective Date shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with their terms, and no provision of this Plan shall be deemed to affect or otherwise modify the rights or obligations of the holders of those options with respect to their acquisition of shares of Common Stock thereunder.
Automatic Grants
.
               Option grants shall be made pursuant to the Automatic Grant Program in effect under this Article Four as follows:
               1. Each individual who is first elected or appointed as a non-employee Board member at any time on or after the Plan Effective Date shall automatically be granted, on the date of such initial election or appointment, a Non-Statutory Option to purchase not more than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) shares of Common Stock, provided that individual has not been in the employ of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary during the immediately preceding twelve (12) months. The actual number of shares for which such initial option grant shall be made shall (subject to the 150,000-share limit) be determined by the Plan Administrator at the time of each such grant.
Initial Grant:
               2. On the date of each annual stockholders meeting, beginning with the 2005 Annual Meeting, each individual who is to continue to serve as a non-employee Board member, whether or not that individual is standing for re-election to the Board at that particular annual meeting, shall automatically be granted a Non-Statutory Option to purchase not more than forty thousand (40,000) shares of Common Stock, provided that such individual has served as a non-employee Board member for a period of at least six (6) months. There shall be no limit on the number of such annual share option grants any one continuing non-employee Board member may receive over his or her period of Board service, and non-employee Board members who have previously been in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) shall be eligible to receive one or more such annual option grants over their period of continued Board service. The actual number of shares for which such annual option grants are made to each continuing non-employee Board member shall (subject to the 40,000-share limit) be determined by the Plan Administrator on or before the date of the annual stockholders meeting on which those grants are to be made.
Annual Grants:
 
          B. .
Exercise Price
               1. The exercise price per share shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date.
               2. The exercise price shall be payable in one or more of the alternative forms authorized under the Discretionary Grant Program. Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure specified thereunder is utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on the Exercise Date.
          C. Each option shall have a maximum term of seven (7) years measured from the option grant date, subject to earlier termination following the Optionee's cessation of Service.
Option Term
.
          D. Each option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the option shares. However, any unvested shares purchased under the option shall be subject to repurchase by the Corporation, at the of (i) the exercise price paid per share or (ii) the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock at the time of repurchase, upon the Optionee's cessation of Service prior to vesting in those shares. The shares subject to each initial 150,000-share-or-less grant shall vest, and the Corporation's repurchase right shall lapse, in four (4) successive equal annual installments upon the Optionee's completion of each year of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) over the four (4)-year period measured from the option grant date. The shares subject to each annual 40,000-share-or-less grant made to a non-employee Board member for his or her continued Board service shall vest, and the Corporation's repurchase right shall lapse, in one installment upon the of (i) the Optionee's completion of the one (1)-year period of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) measured from the grant date or (ii) the Optionee's continuation in such Service capacity through the day immediately preceding the next annual stockholders meeting following such grant date.
Exercise and Vesting of Options
.
lower
earlier
          E. Each option under this Article Four may be assigned in whole or in part during the Optionee's lifetime to one or more of his or her Family Members or to a trust established exclusively for the Optionee and/or one or more such Family Members, to the extent such assignment is in connection with the Optionee's estate plan or pursuant to a domestic relations order. The assigned portion may only be exercised by the person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to the assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and shall be set forth in such documents issued to the assignee as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate. The Optionee may also designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of his or her outstanding options under this Article Four, and the options shall, in accordance with such designation, automatically be transferred to such beneficiary or beneficiaries upon the Optionee's death while holding those options. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred options subject to all the terms and conditions of the applicable agreement evidencing each such transferred option, including (without limitation) the limited time period during which the option may be exercised following the Optionee's death.
Limited Transferability of Options
.
 
          F. The following provisions shall govern the exercise of any options held by the Optionee at the time the Optionee ceases Service:
Termination of Board Service
.
               (i) The Optionee (or, in the event of Optionee's death while holding the option, the personal representative of the Optionee's estate or the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to the Optionee's will or the laws of inheritance or the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of such option) shall have a twelve (12)-month period following the date of such cessation of Service in which to exercise such option.
               (ii) During the twelve (12)-month exercise period, the option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested shares of Common Stock for which the option is exercisable at the time of the Optionee's cessation of Service. However, should the Optionee cease to serve as a Board member by reason of death or Permanent Disability, then all shares at the time subject to the option shall immediately vest so that such option may, during the twelve (12)-month exercise period following such cessation of Board service, be exercised for any or all of those shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock.
               (iii) In no event shall the option remain exercisable after the expiration of the option term. Upon the expiration of the twelve (12)-month exercise period or (if earlier) upon the expiration of the option term, the option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested shares for which the option has not been exercised. However, the option shall, immediately upon the Optionee's cessation of Service for any reason (other than cessation of Board service by reason of death or Permanent Disability), terminate and cease to be outstanding to the extent the option is not otherwise at that time exercisable for vested shares.
     
II. CHANGE IN CONTROL/HOSTILE TAKE-OVER
          A. Should a Change in Control occur prior to the Optionee's cessation of Service, then the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to each outstanding option held by such Optionee under this Automatic Grant Program but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest in full so that each such option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become exercisable for all the option shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock and may be exercised for any or all of those vested shares. Immediately following the consummation of the Change in Control, each automatic option grant shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.
 
          B. Should a Hostile Take-Over occur prior to the Optionee's cessation of Service, then the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to each outstanding option held by such Optionee under this Automatic Grant Program but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest in full so that each such option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Hostile Take-Over, become exercisable for all the option shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock and may be exercised for any or all of those vested shares. Each such option shall remain exercisable for such fully vested option shares until the expiration or sooner termination of the option term.
          C. All outstanding repurchase rights under this under this Automatic Grant Program shall automatically terminate, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Change in Control or Hostile Take-Over.
          D. Each option which is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Change in Control had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Change in Control. Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the exercise price payable per share under each outstanding option, the aggregate exercise price payable for such securities shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of the outstanding options under the Automatic Grant Program, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction.
provided
     
III. REMAINING TERMS
          The remaining terms of each grant shall be the same as the terms in effect for option grants made under the Discretionary Grant Program.
     
IV. ALTERNATIVE AWARDS
          The Compensation Committee shall have full power and authority to award, in lieu of one or more initial or annual automatic option grants under this Article Four, unvested shares of Common Stock or restricted stock units which in each instance have an aggregate Fair Market Value substantially equal to the fair value (as determined for financial reporting purposes in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard 123R or any successor standard) of the automatic option grant which such award replaces. Any such alternative award shall be made at the same time the automatic option grant which it replaces would have been made, and the vesting provisions (including vesting acceleration) applicable to such award shall be substantially the same as in effect for the automatic option grant so replaced.
 
     
I. TAX WITHHOLDING
          A. The Corporation's obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock upon the exercise of options or stock appreciation rights or the issuance or vesting of such shares under the Plan shall be subject to the satisfaction of all applicable income and employment tax withholding requirements.
          B. The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, provide any or all holders of Non-Statutory Options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units or any other share right awards pursuant to which vested shares of Common Stock are to be issued under the Plan (other than the option grants and other stock-based awards made under the Automatic Grant Program) and any or all Participants to whom vested or unvested shares of Common Stock are issued in a direct issuance under the Stock Issuance Program with the right to use shares of Common Stock in satisfaction of all or part of the Withholding Taxes to which such holders may become subject in connection with the exercise of their options or stock appreciation rights, the issuance to them of vested shares or the subsequent vesting of unvested shares issued to them. Such right may be provided to any such holder in either or both of the following formats:
               : The election to have the Corporation withhold, from the shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon the exercise of such Non-Statutory Option or stock appreciation right or upon the issuance of fully-vested shares, a portion of those shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the percentage of the Withholding Taxes (not to exceed one hundred percent (100%)) designated by the holder. The shares of Common Stock so withheld shall reduce the number of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan.
Stock Withholding
               : The election to deliver to the Corporation, at the time the Non-Statutory Option or stock appreciation right is exercised, the vested shares are issued or the unvested shares subsequently vest, one or more shares of Common Stock previously acquired by such holder (other than in connection with the exercise, share issuance or share vesting triggering the Withholding Taxes) with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the percentage of the Withholding Taxes (not to exceed one hundred percent (100%)) designated by the holder. The shares of Common Stock so delivered shall not be added to the shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan.
Stock Delivery
     
II. SHARE ESCROW/LEGENDS
          Unvested shares may, in the Plan Administrator's discretion, be held in escrow by the Corporation until the Participant's interest in such shares vests or may be issued directly to the Participant with restrictive legends on the certificates evidencing those unvested shares.
 
     
III. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF THE PLAN
          A. The Plan shall become effective on the Plan Effective Date.
          B. The Plan shall serve as the successor to the Predecessor Plans, and no further option grants shall be made under the Predecessor Plans if this Plan is approved by the stockholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting. Such stockholder approval shall not affect the options outstanding under the Predecessor Plans at the time of the 2005 Annual Meeting, and those options shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with their terms. However, should any of those options expire or terminate unexercised, the shares of Common Stock subject to those options at the time of expiration or termination shall be added to the share reserve of this Plan, up to the maximum number of additional shares permissible hereunder.
          C. The Plan shall terminate upon the to occur of (i) March 15, 2015, (ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Plan shall have been issued as fully vested shares or (iii) the termination of all outstanding options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units and other share right awards in connection with a Change in Control. Should the Plan terminate on March 15, 2015, then all option grants, stock appreciation rights, unvested stock issuances, restricted stock units and other share right awards outstanding at that time shall continue to have force and effect in accordance with the provisions of the documents evidencing such grants, issuances or awards.
earliest
     
IV. AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN
          A. The Board shall have complete and exclusive power and authority to amend or modify the Plan in any or all respects. However, no such amendment or modification shall adversely affect the rights and obligations with respect to stock options, stock appreciation rights, unvested stock issuances or other stock-based awards at the time outstanding under the Plan unless the Optionee or the Participant consents to such amendment or modification. In addition, amendments to the Plan will be subject to stockholder approval to the extent required under applicable law or regulation or pursuant to the listing standards of the stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market) on which the Common Stock is at the time primarily traded.
          B. The Compensation Committee of the Board shall have the discretionary authority to adopt and implement from time to time such addenda or subplans to the Plan as it may deem necessary in order to bring the Plan into compliance with applicable laws and regulations of any foreign jurisdictions in which grants or awards are to be made under the Plan and/or to obtain favorable tax treatment in those foreign jurisdictions for the individuals to whom the grants or awards are made.
          C. Options and stock appreciation rights may be granted under the Discretionary Grant Program and stock-based awards may be made under the Stock Issuance Program that in each instance involve shares of Common Stock in excess of the number of shares then available for issuance under the Plan, provided no shares shall actually be issued pursuant to those grants or awards until the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under
 
the Plan is sufficiently increased by stockholder approval of an amendment of the Plan authorizing such increase. If stockholder approval is required and is not obtained within twelve (12) months after the date the first excess grant or award made against such contingent increase, then any options, stock appreciation rights or other stock-based awards granted on the basis of such excess shares shall terminate and cease to be outstanding.
     
V. USE OF PROCEEDS
          Any cash proceeds received by the Corporation from the sale of shares of Common Stock under the Plan shall be used for general corporate purposes.
     
VI. REGULATORY APPROVALS
          A. The implementation of the Plan, the granting of any stock option, stock appreciation right or other stock-based award under the Plan and the issuance of any shares of Common Stock (i) upon the exercise or vesting of any granted option, stock appreciation right or other stock-based award or (ii) under the Stock Issuance Program shall be subject to the Corporation's procurement of all approvals and permits required by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over the Plan, the stock options granted under it and the shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to it.
          B. No shares of Common Stock or other assets shall be issued or delivered under the Plan unless and until there shall have been compliance with all applicable requirements of applicable securities laws, including the filing and effectiveness of the Form S-8 registration statement for the shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan, and all applicable listing requirements of any Stock Exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which Common Stock is then listed for trading.
     
VII. NO EMPLOYMENT/SERVICE RIGHTS
          Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon the Optionee or the Participant any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining such person) or of the Optionee or the Participant, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate such person's Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Plan:
          A. shall mean the annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders.
Annual Meeting
          B. shall mean the automatic option grant program in effect under Article Four of the Plan.
Automatic Grant Program
          C. shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
          D. shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
Change in Control
          (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation's stockholders, securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation's outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction,
unless
          (ii) a stockholder-approved sale, transfer or other disposition (including in whole or in part through one or more licensing arrangements) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, or
          (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons comprising a "group" within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation's existing stockholders.
          E. shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
          F. shall mean the Corporation's common stock.
Common Stock
          G. shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board comprised of two (2) or more non-employee Board members.
Compensation Committee
          H. shall mean SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any corporate successor to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of SanDisk Corporation which has by appropriate action assumed the Plan.
Corporation
          I. shall mean the discretionary grant program in effect under Article Two of the Plan pursuant to which stock options and stock appreciation rights may be granted to one or more eligible individuals.
Discretionary Grant Program
          J. shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
          K. shall mean the date on which the Corporation shall have received written notice of the option exercise.
Exercise Date
          L. per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
Fair Market Value
          (i) If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the NASDAQ National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after- hours trading begins) on the NASDAQ National Market on the date in question, as such price is reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
          (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after-hours trading begins) on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock, as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
 
          M. means, with respect to a particular Optionee or Participant, any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, bother-in-law or sister-in-law.
Family Member
          N. shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through either of the following transactions:
Hostile Take-Over
          (i) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination, or
          (ii) the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Corporation's stockholders which the Board does not recommend such stockholders to accept.
          O. shall mean an option which satisfies the requirements of Code Section 422.
Incentive Option
          P. shall mean the termination of the Service of any individual which occurs by reason of:
Involuntary Termination
          (i) such individual's involuntary dismissal or discharge by the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for reasons other than Misconduct, or
          (ii) such individual's voluntary resignation following (A) a change in his or her position with the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) which materially reduces his or her duties and responsibilities or the level of management to which he or she reports, (B) a reduction in his or her level of compensation (including base salary, fringe benefits and target bonus under any corporate-performance based bonus or incentive programs) by more than fifteen percent (15%) or (C) a relocation of such individual's place of employment by more than fifty (50) miles, provided and only if such change, reduction or relocation is effected by the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) without the individual's consent.
 
          Q. shall mean the commission of any act of fraud, embezzlement or dishonesty by the Optionee or Participant, any unauthorized use or disclosure by such person of confidential information or trade secrets of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), or any other intentional misconduct by such person adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in a material manner. The foregoing definition shall not in any way preclude or restrict the right of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) to discharge or dismiss any Optionee, Participant or other person in the Service of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any other acts or omissions, but such other acts or omissions shall not be deemed, for purposes of the Plan, to constitute grounds for termination for Misconduct.
Misconduct
          R. shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
1934 Act
          S. shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.
Non-Statutory Option
          T. shall mean any person to whom an option is granted under the Discretionary Grant or Automatic Grant Program.
Optionee
          U. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
          V. shall mean any person who is issued shares of Common Stock or restricted stock units or other stock-based awards under the Stock Issuance Program.
Participant
          W. shall mean the inability of the Optionee or the Participant to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more. However, solely for purposes of the Automatic Grant Program, Permanent Disability or Permanently Disabled shall mean the inability of the non-employee Board member to perform his or her usual duties as a Board member by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.
Permanent Disability or Permanently Disabled
          X. shall mean the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as set forth in this document.
Plan
          Y. shall mean the particular entity, whether the Compensation Committee, the Board or the Secondary Board Committee, which is authorized to administer the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs with respect to one or more classes of eligible persons, to the extent such entity is carrying out its administrative functions under those programs with respect to the persons under its jurisdiction.
Plan Administrator
 
          Z. shall mean the May 27, 2005 date on which the Plan is approved by the stockholders at the 2005 Annual Meeting.
Plan Effective Date
          AA. shall mean (i) the Corporation's 1995 Stock Option Plan and (ii) the Corporation's 1995 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, as each such Plan is in effect immediately prior to the 2005 Annual Stockholders Meeting.
Predecessor Plans
          BB. shall mean a committee of one or more Board members appointed by the Board to administer the Discretionary Grant and Stock Issuance Programs with respect to eligible persons other than Section 16 Insiders.
Secondary Board Committee
          CC. shall mean an officer or director of the Corporation subject to the short-swing profit liabilities of Section 16 of the 1934 Act.
Section 16 Insider
          DD. shall mean the performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in the documents evidencing the option grant or stock issuance. For purposes of the Plan, an Optionee or Participant shall be deemed to cease Service immediately upon the occurrence of the either of the following events: (i) the Optionee or Participant no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary or (ii) the entity for which the Optionee or Participant is performing such services ceases to remain a Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation, even though the Optionee or Participant may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. Service shall not be deemed to cease during a period of military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Corporation; provided, , that should such leave of absence exceed three (3) months, then for purposes of determining the period within which an Incentive Option may be exercised as such under the federal tax laws, the Optionee's Service shall be deemed to cease on the first day immediately following the expiration of such three (3)-month period, unless Optionee is provided with the right to return to Service following such leave either by statute or by written contract. Except to the extent otherwise required by law or expressly authorized by the Plan Administrator or by the Corporation's written policy on leaves of absence, no Service credit shall be given for vesting purposes for any period the Optionee or Participant is on a leave of absence.
Service
however
          EE. shall mean either the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.
Stock Exchange
          FF. shall mean the agreement entered into by the Corporation and the Participant at the time of issuance of shares of Common Stock under the Stock Issuance Program.
Stock Issuance Agreement
          GG. shall mean the stock issuance program in effect under Article Three of the Plan.
Stock Issuance Program
 
          HH. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
          II. shall mean the owner of stock (as determined under Code Section 424(d)) possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).
10% Stockholder
          JJ. shall mean the applicable income and employment withholding taxes to which the holder of an option or stock appreciation right or shares of Common Stock under the Plan may become subject in connection with the grant or exercise of those options or stock appreciation rights or the issuance or vesting of those shares.
Withholding Taxes

 
Exhibit 10.2
     Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the "Option") to purchase shares of the Common Stock of SanDisk Corporation (the "Corporation"):
     : To be determined by the Plan Administrator.
Exercise Schedule
     Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is granted subject to and in accordance with the terms of the SanDisk Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as . Optionee hereby acknowledges the receipt of a copy of the official prospectus for the Plan in the form attached hereto as . A copy of the Plan is available upon request made to the Corporate Secretary at the Corporation's principal offices.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
     . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the
Employment at Will
 
     Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee's Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.
     . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement.
Definitions
DATED:
                    
                    
                    
ATTACHMENTS
Exhibit A  Stock Option Agreement *
Exhibit B  Plan Summary and Prospectus *
     * The Form of Stock Option Agreement is available on the Company's intranet website at http://sprocket/IR/ and is labeled "Stock Option Agreement Form 1". A copy of the Plan Summary and Prospectus is also available on the Company's intranet website at http://sprocket/IR/. You may also request a copy of the Form of Stock Option Agreement and the Plan Summary and Prospectus by contacting Stock Administration.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.3
INITIAL GRANT
     Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the "Option") to purchase shares of the Common Stock of SanDisk Corporation (the "Corporation"):
     : Non-Statutory Stock Option
Type of Option
     : Immediately Exercisable
Date Exercisable
: The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation at the of (i) the Exercise Price paid per share or (ii) the Fair Market Value per share at the time of repurchase. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation's repurchase right shall accordingly lapse with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee's completion of each year of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) over the four (4)-year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee's cessation of Service.
Vesting Schedule
lower
     Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is granted subject to and in accordance with the terms of the automatic option grant program under the SanDisk Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Automatic Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as . Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the official prospectus for the Plan in the form attached hereto as . A copy of the Plan is available upon request made to the Corporate Secretary at the Corporation's principal offices.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
     
REPURCHASE RIGHT
. OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ANY UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL BE SUBJECT TO A REPURCHASE RIGHT EXERCISABLE BY THE
 
CORPORATION AND ITS ASSIGNS. THE TERMS OF SUCH RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.
     . Nothing in this Notice or the attached Automatic Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation and the Corporation's stockholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
No Impairment of Rights
     . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached Automatic Stock Option Agreement.
Definitions
_________________, 200____
DATED:
ATTACHMENTS
Exhibit A  Automatic Stock Option Agreement
Exhibit B  Plan Summary and Prospectus
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.4
ANNUAL GRANT
     Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the "Option") to purchase shares of the Common Stock of SanDisk Corporation (the "Corporation"):
     : Non-Statutory Stock Option
Type of Option
     : Immediately Exercisable
Date Exercisable
: The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation at the of (i) the Exercise Price paid per share or (ii) the Fair Market Value per share at the time of repurchase. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation's repurchase right shall accordingly lapse with respect to, the Option Shares upon the of (i) Optionee's completion of one year of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) measured from the Grant Date or (ii) Optionee's continuation in Service through the day immediately preceding the day on which the next annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders is held following the Grant Date. In no event shall any Option Shares vest after Optionee's cessation of Service.
Vesting Schedule
lower
earlier
     Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is granted subject to and in accordance with the terms of the automatic option grant program under the SanDisk Corporation 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Automatic Stock Option Agreement attached hereto as . Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the official prospectus for the Plan in the form attached hereto as . A copy of the Plan is available upon request made to the Corporate Secretary at the Corporation's principal offices.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
 
     
REPURCHASE RIGHT
. OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ANY UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL BE SUBJECT TO A REPURCHASE RIGHT EXERCISABLE BY THE CORPORATION AND ITS ASSIGNS. THE TERMS OF SUCH RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.
     . Nothing in this Notice or the attached Automatic Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation and the Corporation's stockholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
No Impairment of Rights
     . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice or in the attached Automatic Stock Option Agreement.
Definitions
_________________, 200___
DATED:
ATTACHMENTS
Exhibit A  Automatic Stock Option Agreement
Exhibit B  Plan Summary and Prospectus
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.5
RECITALS
     A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board (or the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary) and consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).
     B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Corporation (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation's grant of an option to Optionee.
     C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix.
          , it is hereby agreed as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
          1. . The Corporation hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Grant Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price.
Grant of Option
          2. . This option shall have a maximum term of seven (7) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6
Option Term
          3. .
Limited Transferability
               (a) This option shall be neither transferable nor assignable by Optionee other than by will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee's death and may be exercised, during Optionee's lifetime, only by Optionee. However, Optionee may designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of this option, and this option shall, in accordance with such designation, automatically be transferred to such beneficiary or beneficiaries upon the Optionee's death while holding this option. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred option subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including (without limitation) the limited time period during which this option may, pursuant to Paragraph 5, be exercised following Optionee's death.
               (b) If this option is designated a Non-Statutory Option in the Grant Notice, then this option may be assigned in whole or in part during Optionee's lifetime to one or more of the Optionee's Family Members or to a trust established for the exclusive benefit of Optionee and/or one or more such Family Members, to the extent such assignment is in
 
connection with the Optionee's estate plan or pursuant to a domestic relations order. The assigned portion shall be exercisable only by the person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to such assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for this option immediately prior to such assignment.
          4. . This option shall become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments in accordance with the Exercise Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice. As the option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate, and the option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the option term under Paragraph 5 or 6.
Dates of Exercise
          5. . The option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:
Cessation of Service
               (a) Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Permanent Disability or Misconduct) while this option is outstanding, then Optionee (or any person or persons to whom this option is transferred pursuant to a permitted transfer under Paragraph 3) shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the first date following such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this option, but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.
               (b) Should Optionee die while this option is outstanding, then this option may be exercised by (i) the personal representative of Optionee's estate or (ii) the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee's will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee's death or to whom the option is transferred during Optionee's lifetime pursuant to a permitted transfer under Paragraph 3, as the case may be. However, if Optionee dies while holding this option and has an effective beneficiary designation in effect for this option at the time of his or her death, then the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries shall have the exclusive right to exercise this option following Optionee's death. Any such right to exercise this option shall lapse, and this option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period following the date of Optionee's death or (ii) the Expiration Date.
               (c) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Permanent Disability while this option is outstanding, then Optionee (or any person or persons to whom this option is transferred pursuant to a permitted transfer under Paragraph 3) shall have a period of twelve (12) months (commencing with the first day following such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this option. In no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.
               (d) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares for which this option is, at the time of Optionee's cessation of Service, vested and exercisable pursuant to the Exercise Schedule specified in the Grant Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6. This option shall not vest or become exercisable for any additional Option Shares,
 
whether pursuant to the normal Exercise Schedule specified in the Grant Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6, following the Optionee's cessation of Service, except to the extent (if any) specifically authorized by the Plan Administrator pursuant to an express written agreement with the Optionee. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any exercisable Option Shares for which the option has not otherwise been exercised.
               (e) Should Optionee's Service be terminated for Misconduct or should Optionee otherwise engage in any Misconduct while this option is outstanding, then this option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding.
          6. .
Special Acceleration of Option
               (a) This option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change in Control, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock. However, this option shall become exercisable on such an accelerated basis, if and to the extent: (i) this option is to be assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or is otherwise to be continued in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction or (ii) this option is to be replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing at the time of the Change in Control on any Option Shares for which this option is not otherwise at that time exercisable (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares) and provides for subsequent payout of that spread in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule for those Option Shares as set forth in the Grant Notice.
not
               (b) Immediately following the Change in Control, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or otherwise continued in effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.
               (c) If this option is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect, then this option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Change in Control had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Change in Control, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of this option, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control, provided such common stock is readily tradable on an established U.S. securities exchange or market.
 
               (d) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
          7. . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.
Adjustment in Option Shares
          8. . The holder of this option shall not have any stockholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.
Stockholder Rights
          9. .
Manner of Exercising Option
               (a) In order to exercise this option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) must take the following actions:
                    (i) Execute and deliver to the Corporation a Notice of Exercise for the Option Shares for which the option is exercised or comply with such other procedures as the Corporation may establish for notifying the Corporation of the exercise of this option for one or more Option Shares.
                    (ii) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased shares in one or more of the following forms:
                         (A) cash or check made payable to the Corporation;
                         (B) shares of Common Stock held by Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) for any requisite period necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation's earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date; or
                         (C) through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable instructions (i) to a brokerage firm (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in accordance with the Corporation's pre-clearance/pre-notification policies) to effect the
 
               Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure is utilized in connection with the option exercise, payment of the Exercise Price must accompany the Notice of Exercise (or other notification procedure) delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.
                    (iii) Furnish to the Corporation appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this option.
                    (iv) Make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all applicable income and employment tax withholding requirements applicable to the option exercise.
               (b) As soon as practical after the Exercise Date, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate for the purchased Option Shares, with the appropriate legends affixed thereto.
               (c) In no event may this option be exercised for any fractional shares.
          10. .
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
               (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation and Optionee with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.
               (b) The inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Corporation, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.
 
          11. . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee's assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee's estate and any beneficiaries of this option designated by Optionee.
Successors and Assigns
          12. . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in writing and addressed to Optionee at the address indicated below Optionee's signature line on the Grant Notice. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.
Notices
          13. . This Agreement and the option evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. All decisions of the Plan Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this option.
Construction
          14. . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that State's conflict-of-laws rules.
Governing Law
          15. . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of shares of Common Stock which may without stockholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.
Excess Shares
          16. . In the event this option is designated an Incentive Option in the Grant Notice, the following terms and conditions shall also apply to the grant:
Additional Terms Applicable to an Incentive Option
               (a) This option shall cease to qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Option if (and to the extent) this option is exercised for one or more Option Shares: (A) more than three (3) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee for any reason other than death or Permanent Disability or (B) more than twelve (12) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee by reason of Permanent Disability.
               (b) No installment under this option shall qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Option if (and to the extent) the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the Grant Date) of the Common Stock for which such installment first becomes exercisable hereunder would, when added to the aggregate value (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant) of the Common Stock or other securities for which this option or any other Incentive Options granted to Optionee prior to the Grant Date (whether under the Plan or any
 
other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) first become exercisable during the same calendar year, exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) in the aggregate. Should such One Hundred Thousand Dollar ($100,000) limitation be exceeded in any calendar year, this option shall nevertheless become exercisable for the excess shares in such calendar year as a Non-Statutory Option.
               (c) Should the exercisability of this option be accelerated upon a Change in Control, then this option shall qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Option only to the extent the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined at the Grant Date) of the Common Stock for which this option first becomes exercisable in the calendar year in which the Change in Control transaction occurs does not, when added to the aggregate value (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant) of the Common Stock or other securities for which this option or one or more other Incentive Options granted to Optionee prior to the Grant Date (whether under the Plan or any other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) first become exercisable during the same calendar year, exceed One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) in the aggregate. Should the applicable One Hundred Thousand Dollar ($100,000) limitation be exceeded in the calendar year of such Change in Control, the option may nevertheless be exercised for the excess shares in such calendar year as a Non-Statutory Option.
               (d) Should Optionee hold, in addition to this option, one or more other options to purchase Common Stock which become exercisable for the first time in the same calendar year as this option, then for purposes of the foregoing limitations on the exercisability of such options as Incentive Options, this option and each of those other options shall be deemed to become first exercisable in that calendar year, on the basis of the chronological order in which such options were granted, except to the extent otherwise provided under applicable law or regulation.
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:
          A.  shall mean this Stock Option Agreement.
Agreement
          B.  shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
          C.  shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
Change in Control
               (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation's stockholders, unless securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation's outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction, or
               (ii) a stockholder-approved sale, transfer or other disposition (including in whole or in part through one or more licensing arrangements) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, or
               (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons comprising a "group" within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation's existing stockholders.
          D.  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          E.  shall mean shares of the Corporation's common stock.
Common Stock
          F.  shall mean SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of SanDisk Corporation which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.
Corporation
 
          G.  shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
          H.  shall mean the date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 9 of the Agreement.
Exercise Date
          I.  shall mean the exercise price per Option Share as specified in the Grant Notice.
Exercise Price
          J.  shall mean the schedule set forth in the Grant Notice pursuant to which the option is to become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments over the Optionee's period of Service.
Exercise Schedule
          K.  shall mean the date on which the option expires as specified in the Grant Notice.
Expiration Date
          L.  per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
Fair Market Value
               (i) If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after-hours trading begins) on the Nasdaq National Market on the date in question, as such price is reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers on the Nasdaq National Market. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
               (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after-hours trading begins) on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock, as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
          M.  shall mean any of the following members of the Optionee's family: any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, bother-in-law or sister-in-law.
Family Member
          N.  shall mean the date of grant of the option as specified in the Grant Notice.
Grant Date
 
          O.  shall mean the Notice of Grant of Stock Option accompanying the Agreement, pursuant to which Optionee has been informed of the basic terms of the option evidenced hereby.
Grant Notice
          P. shall mean an option which satisfies the requirements of Code Section 422.
Incentive Option
          Q.  shall mean the commission of any act of fraud, embezzlement or dishonesty by Optionee, any unauthorized use or disclosure by Optionee of confidential information or trade secrets of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), or any other intentional misconduct by Optionee adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in a material manner. The foregoing definition shall not in any way preclude or restrict the right of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) to discharge or dismiss Optionee or any other person in the Service of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any other acts or omissions, but such other acts or omissions shall not be deemed, for purposes of the Plan or this Agreement, to constitute grounds for termination for Misconduct.
Misconduct
          R.  shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.
Non-Statutory Option
          S.  shall mean the notice of option exercise in the form prescribed by the Corporation..
Notice of Exercise
          T.  shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option as specified in the Grant Notice.
Option Shares
          U.  shall mean the person to whom the option is granted as specified in the Grant Notice.
Optionee
          V.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
          W.  shall mean the inability of Optionee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.
Permanent Disability
          X.  shall mean the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.
Plan
          Y.  shall mean either the Board or a committee of the Board acting in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.
Plan Administrator
 
          Z.  shall mean the Optionee's performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor. However, the Optionee shall be deemed to cease Service immediately upon the occurrence of the either of the following events: (i) the Optionee no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary or (ii) the entity for which the Optionee is performing such services ceases to remain a Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation, even though the Optionee may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. Service shall not be deemed to cease during a period of military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Corporation; , , that should such leave of absence exceed three (3) months, then for purposes of determining the period within which the option may be exercised as an Incentive Stock Option under the federal tax laws (if the option is designated as such in the Grant Notice), the Optionee's Service shall be deemed to cease on the first day immediately following the expiration of such three (3)-month period, unless Optionee is provided with the right to return to Service following such leave either by statute or by written contract. Except to the extent otherwise required by law or expressly authorized by the Plan Administrator or by the Corporation's written policy on leaves of absence, no Service credit shall be given for vesting purposes for any period the Optionee is on a leave of absence.
Service
provided
however
          AA.  shall mean the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.
Stock Exchange
          BB.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary

 
Exhibit 10.6
RECITALS
     A. The Corporation has implemented an automatic option grant program under the Plan pursuant to which eligible non-employee members of the Board will automatically receive special option grants at periodic intervals over their period of Board service in order to provide such individuals with a meaningful incentive to continue to serve as members of the Board.
     B. Optionee is an eligible non-employee Board member, and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the automatic grant of an option to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan.
     C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix.
          , it is hereby agreed as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
          1. . The Corporation hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Non-Statutory Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Grant Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price.
Grant of Option
          2. . This option shall have a term of seven (7) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6.
Option Term
          3. .
Limited Transferability
               (a) This option may be assigned in whole or in part during Optionee's lifetime to one or more of the Optionee's Family Members or to a trust established for the exclusive benefit of Optionee and/or one or more such Family Members, to the extent such assignment is in connection with the Optionee's estate plan or pursuant to a domestic relations order. The assigned portion shall be exercisable only by the person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to such assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same as those in effect for this option immediately prior to such assignment.
               (b) Should the Optionee die while holding this option, then this option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee's will or the laws of inheritance. However, Optionee may designate one or more persons as the beneficiary or beneficiaries of this option, and this option shall, in accordance with such designation, automatically be transferred to such
 
beneficiary or beneficiaries upon the Optionee's death while holding this option. Such beneficiary or beneficiaries shall take the transferred option subject to all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including (without limitation) the limited time period during which this option may, pursuant to Paragraph 5, be exercised following Optionee's death.
          4. .
Exercisability/Vesting
               (a) This option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are at the time vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the option term under Paragraph 5 or 6.
               (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Grant Notice, vest in the Option Shares in one or more installments over his or her period of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant). The Option Shares shall, however, be subject to accelerated vesting pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7, but in no event shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee's cessation of Service.
          5. . Should Optionee's Service cease while this option remains outstanding, then the option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:
Cessation of Service
               (a) Should Optionee cease Service for any reason (other than death or Permanent Disability) while this option is outstanding, then the period during which this option may be exercised shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of such cessation of Service, but in no event shall this option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of exercisability, Optionee (or the person or persons to whom this option is transferred pursuant to a permitted transfer under Paragraph 3) may not exercise this option in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Service. Upon the earlier of (i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the option has not been exercised.
               (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Service but while this option is outstanding, then (i) the personal representative of Optionee's estate or (ii) the person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to Optionee's will or the laws of inheritance following Optionee's death or to whom the option is transferred during Optionee's lifetime pursuant to a permitted transfer under Paragraph 3 or (iii) the designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of this option (as the case may be) shall have the right to exercise this option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee's cessation of Service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Service but prior to death). Any such right
 
to exercise this option shall terminate, and this option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the earlier of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee's cessation of Service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.
               (c) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of death or Permanent Disability, then any Option Shares at the time subject to this option but not otherwise vested shall vest in full so that this option may be exercised for any or all of the Option Shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the earlier of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee's cessation of Service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, whereupon this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding.
               (d) Upon Optionee's cessation of Service for any reason other than death or Permanent Disability, this option shall immediately terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraphs 6 and 7 below.
          6. .
Change in Control
               (a) Should a Change in Control occur during Optionee's period of Service, then any Option Shares at the time subject to this option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for that Change in Control, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock and may be exercised for any or all of those vested shares. Immediately following the consummation of the Change in Control, this option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company or otherwise continued in effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.
               (b) If this option is assumed in connection with a Change in Control or otherwise continued in effect, then this option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Change in Control, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Change in Control had the option been exercised immediately prior to such Change in Control, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. To the extent the actual holders of the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control transaction, the successor corporation may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of this option, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in such Change in Control transaction, provided such common stock is readily tradable on an established U.S. securities exchange or market.
 
          7. . In the event of a Hostile Take-Over effected during Optionee's period of Service, any Option Shares at the time subject to this option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of that Hostile Take-Over, become exercisable for all of the Option Shares as fully vested shares of Common Stock and may be exercised for any or all of those vested shares. This option shall remain exercisable for such fully vested Option Shares until the of (i) the specified Expiration Date, or (ii) the sooner termination of this option in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6.
Hostile Take-Over
earlier
          8. . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or class of securities subject to this option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.
Adjustment in Option Shares
          9. . The holder of this option shall not have any stockholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased shares.
Stockholder Rights
          10. .
Manner of Exercising Option
               (a) In order to exercise this option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) must take the following actions:
                    (i) To the extent the option is exercised for vested Option Shares, execute and deliver to the Corporation a Notice of Exercise for the Option Shares for which the option is exercised or comply with such other procedures as the Corporation may establish for notifying the Corporation of the exercise of this option for one or more Option Shares. To the extent the option is exercised for unvested Option Shares, execute and deliver to the Corporation a Purchase Agreement for those unvested Option Shares.
                    (ii) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased shares in one or more of the following forms:
                         (A) cash or check made payable to the Corporation,
                         (B) shares of Common Stock held by Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) for the requisite period necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation's earnings for financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the Exercise Date, or
 
                         (C) to the extent the option is exercised for vested Option Shares, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable instructions (I) to a brokerage firm (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation for purposes of administering such procedure in accordance with the Corporation's pre-clearance/pre-notification policies) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased shares plus all applicable income and employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation by reason of such exercise and (II) to the Corporation to deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm on such settlement date in order to complete the sale.
                       (iii) Furnish to the Corporation appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this option.
               (b) Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure is utilized in connection with the option exercise, payment of the Exercise Price must accompany the Notice of Exercise or other notification process (or the Purchase Agreement, if applicable) delivered to the Corporation in connection with the option exercise.
               (c) As soon after the Exercise Date as practical, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this option) a certificate for the purchased Option Shares, with the appropriate legends affixed thereto. To the extent any such Option Shares are unvested, the certificates for those Option Shares shall be endorsed with an appropriate legend evidencing the Corporation's repurchase rights and may be held in escrow with the Corporation until such shares vest.
               (d) In no event may this option be exercised for any fractional shares.
          11. . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, this Agreement shall not in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Corporation or the stockholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
No Impairment of Rights
          12. .
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
              (a) The exercise of this option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation and Optionee with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any stock
 
exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.
               (b) The inability of the Corporation to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Corporation to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Common Stock pursuant to this option shall relieve the Corporation of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Common Stock as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Corporation, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.
          13. . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraph 3 or 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee's assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee's estate and any beneficiaries of this option designated by Optionee.
Successors and Assigns
          14. . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Optionee shall be in writing and addressed to Optionee at the address indicated below Optionee's signature line on the Grant Notice. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.
Notices
          15. . This Agreement and the option evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan.
Construction
          16. . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that State's conflict-of-laws rules.
Governing Law
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:
          A.  shall mean this Automatic Stock Option Agreement.
Agreement
          B.  shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
          C.  shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
Change in Control
               (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation's stockholders, unless securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation's outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction, or
               (ii) a stockholder-approved sale, transfer or other disposition (including in whole or in part through one or more licensing arrangements) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, or
               (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons comprising a "group" within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation's existing stockholders.
          D.  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          E.  shall mean shares of the Corporation's common stock.
Common Stock
          F.  shall mean SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of SanDisk Corporation which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.
Corporation
 
          G.  shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
          H. shall mean the date on which the option shall have been exercised in accordance with Paragraph 10 of the Agreement.
Exercise Date
          I.  shall mean the exercise price per share as specified in the Grant Notice.
Exercise Price
          J.  shall mean the date on which the option expires as specified in the Grant Notice.
Expiration Date
          K.  per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
Fair Market Value
               (i) If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after-hours trading begins) on the Nasdaq National Market on the date in question, as such price is reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers on the Nasdaq National Market. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
               (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after-hours trading begins) on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock, as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
          L.  shall mean any of the following members of the Optionee's family: any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, bother-in-law or sister-in-law.
Family Member
          M.  shall mean the date of grant of the option as specified in the Grant Notice.
Grant Date
 
          N.  shall mean the Notice of Grant of Automatic Stock Option accompanying the Agreement, pursuant to which Optionee has been informed of the basic terms of the option evidenced hereby.
Grant Notice
          O.  shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through either of the following transactions:
Hostile Take-Over
               (i) a change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination, or
               (ii) the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Corporation's stockholders which the Board does not recommend such stockholders to accept.
          P.  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
1934 Act
          Q.  shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.
Non-Statutory Option
          R.  shall mean the notice of option exercise in the form prescribed by the Corporation.
Notice of Exercise
          S.  shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the option.
Option Shares
          T.  shall mean the person to whom the option is granted as specified in the Grant Notice.
Optionee
          U.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
 
          V.  shall mean the inability of Optionee to perform his or her usual duties as a member of the Board or other Service status by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which is expected to result in death or has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of twelve (12) months or more.
Permanent Disability
          W.  shall mean the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.
Plan
          X.  shall mean the stock purchase agreement (in form and substance satisfactory to the Corporation) which grants the Corporation the right to repurchase, at the Exercise Price, any and all unvested Option Shares held by Optionee at the time of Optionee's cessation of Service and which precludes the sale, transfer or other disposition of any purchased Option Shares while those shares are unvested and subject to such repurchase right.
Purchase Agreement
          Y.  shall mean the Optionee's performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established) in the capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor.
Service
          Z.  shall mean the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.
Stock Exchange
          AA.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
          BB.  shall mean the vesting schedule specified in the Grant Notice, pursuant to which the Option Shares will vest in one or more installments over the Optionee's period of Service, subject to acceleration in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
Vesting Schedule

 
Exhibit 10.7
RECITALS
          A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees and consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).
          B. Participant is to render valuable services to the Corporation (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Corporation's issuance of shares of Common Stock to the Participant under the Stock Issuance Program.
          C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix A.
, it is hereby agreed as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
          1. . The Corporation hereby awards to the Participant, as of the Award Date, Restricted Stock Units under the Plan. Each Restricted Stock Unit represents the right to receive one share of Common Stock on the vesting date of that unit. The number of shares of Common Stock subject to the awarded Restricted Stock Units, the applicable vesting schedule for those shares, the dates on which those vested shares shall become issuable to Participant and the remaining terms and conditions governing the award (the "Award") shall be as set forth in this Agreement.
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
          2. . Prior to actual receipt of the Shares which vest hereunder, the Participant may not transfer any interest in the Award or the underlying Shares. Any Shares which vest hereunder but which otherwise remain unissued at the time of the
Limited Transferability
 
Participant's death may be transferred pursuant to the provisions of the Participant's will or the laws of inheritance or to the Participant's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of this Award. The Participant may also direct the Corporation to issue the stock certificates for any Shares which in fact vest and become issuable under the Award during his or her lifetime to one or more designated family members or a trust established for the Participant and/or his or her family members. The Participant may make such a beneficiary designation or certificate directive at any time by filing the appropriate form with the Plan Administrator or its designee.
          3. . Should the Participant cease Service for any reason prior to vesting in one or more Shares subject to this Award, then the Award will be immediately cancelled with respect to those unvested Shares, and the number of Restricted Stock Units will be reduced accordingly. The Participant shall thereupon cease to have any right or entitlement to receive any Shares under those cancelled units.
Cessation of Service
          4. 
Stockholder Rights and Dividend Equivalents
               (a) The holder of this Award shall not have any stockholder rights, including voting or dividend rights, with respect to the Shares subject to the Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of those Shares following their actual issuance upon the Corporation's collection of the applicable Withholding Taxes.
               (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, should any dividend or other distribution payable other than in shares of Common Stock, whether regular or extraordinary, be declared and paid on the outstanding Common Stock while one or more Shares remain subject to this Award (i.e., those Shares are not otherwise issued and outstanding for purposes of entitlement to the dividend or distribution), then a special book account shall be established for the Participant and credited with a phantom dividend equivalent to the actual dividend or distribution which would have been paid on those Shares had they been issued and outstanding and entitled to that dividend or distribution. As the Shares subsequently vest hereunder, the phantom dividend equivalents credited to those Shares in the book account shall be distributed to the Participant (in cash or such other form as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate in its sole discretion) concurrently with the issuance of the vested Shares to which those phantom dividend equivalents relate. However, each such distribution shall be subject to the Corporation's collection of the Withholding Taxes applicable to that distribution.
          5. .
Change of Control
               (a) Any Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award at the time of a Change in Control may be assumed by the successor entity or otherwise continued in full force and effect or may be replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor entity which preserves the Fair Market Value of the unvested shares of Common Stock subject to the Award at the time of the Change in Control and provides for subsequent payout of that value in accordance with the vesting schedule applicable to the Award. In the event of such assumption or continuation of the Award or such replacement of the Award with a cash incentive program, no accelerated vesting of the Restricted Stock Units shall occur at the time of the Change in Control.
 
               (b) In the event the Award is assumed or otherwise continued in effect, the Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award shall be adjusted immediately after the consummation of the Change in Control so as to apply to the number and class of securities into which the Shares subject to those units immediately prior to the Change in Control would have been converted in consummation of that Change in Control had those Shares actually been issued and outstanding at that time. To the extent the actual holders of the outstanding Common Stock receive cash consideration for their Common Stock in consummation of the Change in Control, the successor corporation (or parent entity) may, in connection with the assumption or continuation of the Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award at that time, substitute one or more shares of its own common stock with a fair market value equivalent to the cash consideration paid per share of Common Stock in the Change in Control transaction, provided such common stock is readily tradable on an established U.S. securities exchange or market.
               (c) If the Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award at the time of the Change in Control are not assumed or otherwise continued in effect or replaced with a cash incentive program in accordance with Paragraph 5(a), then those units will vest immediately prior to the closing of the Change in Control. The Shares subject to those vested units will be issued immediately upon such vesting (or otherwise converted into the right to receive the same consideration per share of Common Stock payable to the other stockholders of the Corporation in consummation of that Change in Control), subject to the Corporation's collection of the applicable Withholding Taxes pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 7.
               (d) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
          6. . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to the total number and/or class of securities issuable pursuant to this Award in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.
Adjustment in Shares
          7. .
Issuance of Shares of Common Stock
               (a) As soon as administratively practicable following each date one or more Shares vest in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of the Participant a certificate (which may be in electronic form) for the shares of Common Stock which vest on that date under the Award and shall concurrently distribute to the Participant any phantom dividend equivalents with respect to those Shares, subject in each instance to the Corporation's collection of the applicable Withholding Taxes. The Withholding Taxes may be collected from the Participant through any of the following alternatives:
 
           the Participant's delivery of his or her separate check payable to the Corporation in the amount of such Withholding Taxes, or
-
           the use of the proceeds from a next-day sale of the Shares issued to the Participant, provided and only if (i) such a sale is permissible under the Corporation's trading policies governing the sale of Common Stock, (ii) the Participant makes an irrevocable commitment, on or before the vesting date for those Shares, to effect such sale of the Shares and (iii) the transaction is not otherwise deemed to constitute a prohibited loan under Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or
-
           with respect to the distributed phantom dividend equivalents, the Corporation's withholding a portion of that distribution, with the cash portion to be the first portion so withheld.
-
               (b) The Plan Administrator may, in its sole discretion and pursuant to procedures authorized and established by the Plan Administrator for such purpose, permit the Participant to satisfy the Withholding Tax liability applicable to the Shares which vest under the Award by allowing the Participant to direct the Corporation to withhold a portion of those vested Shares with a Fair Market Value (measured as of the vesting date) equal to the amount of such Withholding Taxes; , that the amount of any Shares so withheld shall not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the Corporations required tax withholding obligations using the minimum statutory withholding rates for federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to supplemental taxable income. Participant shall be notified in writing in the event such Share withholding mechanism is actually to be made available from time to time with respect to one or more Shares which vest under this Agreement.
provided, however
               (c) Except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 5 or this Paragraph 7, the settlement of all Restricted Stock Units which vest under the Award shall be made solely in shares of Common Stock. In no event, however, shall any fractional shares be issued. Accordingly, the total number of shares of Common Stock to be issued at the time the Award vests shall, to the extent necessary, be rounded down to the next whole share in order to avoid the issuance of a fractional share.
 
          8. . The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Award shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation and Participant with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock may be listed for trading at the time of such issuance.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
          9. . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Participant shall be in writing and addressed to Participant at the address indicated below Participant's signature line on this Agreement. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.
Notices
          10. . Except to the extent otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Participant, Participant's assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Participant's estate and any beneficiaries of the Award designated by Participant.
Successors and Assigns
          11. . This Agreement and the Award evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. All decisions of the Plan Administrator with respect to any question or issue arising under the Plan or this Agreement shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in the Award.
Construction
          12. . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that State's conflict-of-laws rules.
Governing Law
          13. . Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Participant any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Participant) or of Participant, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Participant's Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.
Employment at Will
 
          , the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year first indicated above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:
          A. shall mean this Restricted Stock Unit Issuance Agreement.
Agreement
          B. shall mean the award of restricted stock units made to the Participant pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Award
          C. shall mean the date the restricted stock units are awarded to Participant pursuant to the Agreement and shall be the date indicated in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.
Award Date
          D. shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
          E. shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
Change in Control
          (i) a merger or consolidation approved by the Corporation's stockholders, unless securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and substantially in the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation's outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction,
          (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition (including in whole or in part through one or more licensing arrangements) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets approved by the Corporation's stockholders, or
          (iii) the acquisition, directly or indirectly by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Corporation's stockholders.
          F. shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
          G. shall mean shares of the Corporation's common stock.
Common Stock
 
          H. shall mean SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of SanDisk Corporation which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.
Corporation
          I. shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
          J. per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
Fair Market Value
          (i) If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the NASDAQ National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after- hours trading begins) on the NASDAQ National Market on the date in question, as such price is reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
          (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of Common Stock at the close of regular hours trading (i.e., before after-hours trading begins) on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock, as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.
          K. shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
1934 Act
          L. shall mean the person to whom the Award is made pursuant to the Agreement.
Participant
          M. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
          N. shall mean the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.
Plan
 
          O. shall mean either the Board or a committee of the Board acting in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.
Plan Administrator
          P. shall mean the Participant's performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in the capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor. For purposes of this Agreement, Participant shall be deemed to cease Service immediately upon the occurrence of the either of the following events: (i) Participant no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) or (ii) the entity for which Participant performs such services ceases to remain a Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation, even though Participant may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. Service shall not be deemed to cease during a period of military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Corporation; , that except to the extent otherwise required by law or expressly authorized by the Plan Administrator or by the Corporation's written policy on leaves of absence, no Service credit shall be given for vesting purposes for any period the Participant is on a leave of absence.
Service
provided, however
          Q. shall mean the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange.
Stock Exchange
          R. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
          S. shall mean the federal, state and local income taxes and the employee portion of the federal, state and local employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation in connection with the issuance of the shares of Common Stock which vest under of the Award and any phantom dividend equivalents distributed with respect to those shares.
Withholding Taxes

 
Exhibit 10.8
DIRECTOR GRANT
RECITALS
          A. The Plan is to designed to provide equity incentives to selected Employees, non-employee Board members and consultants and other independent advisors in order to attract and retain their services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).
          B. Participant is a non-employee Board member to whom an equity incentive award is to be made pursuant to the Automatic Grant Program under the Plan.
          C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in the attached Appendix A.
, it is hereby agreed as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
          1. . Participant is hereby awarded, as of the Award Date, Restricted Stock Units under the Automatic Grant Program. Each Restricted Stock Unit represents the right to receive one share of Common Stock on the vesting date of that unit. The number of shares of Common Stock subject to the awarded Restricted Stock Units, the applicable vesting schedule for those shares, the dates on which those vested shares shall become issuable to Participant and the remaining terms and conditions governing the award (the "Award") shall be as set forth in this Agreement.
Grant of Restricted Stock Units
 
          2. . Prior to actual receipt of the Shares which vest hereunder, the Participant may not transfer any interest in the Award or the underlying Shares. Any Shares which vest hereunder but which otherwise remain unissued at the time of the Participant's death may be transferred pursuant to the provisions of the Participant's will or the laws of inheritance or to the Participant's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of this Award. The Participant may also direct the Corporation to issue the stock certificates for any Shares which in fact vest and become issuable under the Award during his or her lifetime to one or more designated family members or a trust established for the Participant and/or his or her family members. The Participant may make such a beneficiary designation or certificate directive at any time by filing the appropriate form with the Plan Administrator or its designee.
Limited Transferability
          3. . Should the Participant cease Service for any reason prior to vesting in one or more Shares subject to this Award, then the Award will be immediately cancelled with respect to those unvested Shares, and the number of Restricted Stock Units will be reduced accordingly. The Participant shall thereupon cease to have any right or entitlement to receive any Shares under those cancelled units.
Cessation of Service
          4.
Stockholder Rights and Dividend Equivalents
               (a) The holder of this Award shall not have any stockholder rights, including voting or dividend rights, with respect to the Shares subject to the Award until the Participant becomes the record holder of those Shares following their actual issuance.
               (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, should any dividend or other distribution payable other than in shares of Common Stock, whether regular or extraordinary, be declared and paid on the outstanding Common Stock while one or more Shares remain subject to this Award (i.e., those Shares are not otherwise issued and outstanding for purposes of entitlement to the dividend or distribution), then a special book account shall be established for the Participant and credited with a phantom dividend equivalent to the actual dividend or distribution which would have been paid on those Shares had they been issued and outstanding and entitled to that dividend or distribution. As the Shares subsequently vest hereunder, the phantom dividend equivalents credited to those Shares in the book account shall be distributed to the Participant (in cash or such other form as the Plan Administrator may deem appropriate in its sole discretion) concurrently with the issuance of the vested Shares to which those phantom dividend equivalents relate.
          5. .
Special Vesting Acceleration
               (a) Should a Change in Control occur during Participant's period of Service, then the Restricted Stock Units at the time subject to this Award will vest immediately prior to the closing of the Change in Control. The Shares subject to those vested units will be issued immediately upon such vesting (or otherwise converted into the right to receive the same consideration per share of Common Stock payable to the other stockholders of the Corporation in consummation of that Change in Control).
 
               (b) Should Participant cease Service by reason of death or Permanent Disability, then the Restricted Stock Units at the time subject to this Award will vest immediately, and the Shares subject to those vested units will be issued as soon as administratively practicable following such cessation of Service.
               (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
          6. . Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to the total number and/or class of securities issuable pursuant to this Award in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.
Adjustment in Shares
          7. . As soon as administratively practicable following each date one or more Shares vest in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Corporation shall issue to or on behalf of the Participant a certificate (which may be in electronic form) for the shares of Common Stock which vest on that date under the Award and shall concurrently distribute to the Participant any phantom dividend equivalents with respect to those Shares.
Issuance of Shares of Common Stock
          8. . The issuance of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Award shall be subject to compliance by the Corporation and Participant with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock may be listed for trading at the time of such issuance.
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
          9. . Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Corporation under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporation at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Participant shall be in writing and addressed to Participant at the address indicated below Participant's signature line on this Agreement. All notices shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be notified.
Notices
          10. . Except to the extent otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and Participant, Participant's assigns, the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Participant's estate and any beneficiaries of the Award designated by Participant.
Successors and Assigns
          11. . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to that State's conflict-of-laws rules.
Governing Law
 
          12. . This Agreement and the Award evidenced hereby are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. This Agreement shall be construed in conformity with the terms of the Plan.
Construction
          13. . Nothing in this Agreement shall interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation and the Corporation's stockholders to remove Participant from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
No Impairment of Rights
          , the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year first indicated above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:
          A. shall mean this Restricted Stock Unit Issuance Agreement.
Agreement
          B. shall mean the automatic option grant program for non-employee Board members in effect under Article Four of the Plan.
Automatic Grant Program
          C. shall mean the award of restricted stock units made to the Participant pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Award
          D. shall mean the date the restricted stock units are awarded to Participant pursuant to the Agreement and shall be the date indicated in Paragraph 1 of the Agreement.
Award Date
          E. shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
          F. shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
Change in Control
          (i) a merger or consolidation approved by the Corporation's stockholders, unless securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and substantially in the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation's outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction,
          (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition (including in whole or in part through one or more licensing arrangements) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets approved by the Corporation's stockholders, or
          (iii) the acquisition, directly or indirectly by any person or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Corporation), of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Corporation's stockholders.
          G. shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
          H. shall mean shares of the Corporation's common stock.
Common Stock
          I. shall mean SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of SanDisk Corporation which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.
Corporation
          J. shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
          K. shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
1934 Act
          L. shall mean the non-employee Board member to whom the Award is made pursuant to the Agreement.
Participant
          M. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
          N. shall mean the inability of Participant to perform his or her usual duties as a Board member or other Service status by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.
Permanent Disability
          O. shall mean the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated.
Plan
          P. shall mean Participant's performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) in the capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor.
Service
          Q. shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
 
          The Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon Participant's completion of each year of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) over the four (4)-year period measured from ____________, 200___.
          The Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units shall vest upon the earlier of (i) Participant's completion of the one (1)-year period of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) measured from ____________, 200___or (ii) Participant's continuation in such Service capacity through the day immediately preceding the next annual stockholders meeting following such measurement date.

 
Exhibit 10.9
EMPLOYEE GRANT
          made this ______day of ____________, by and between SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation,   and ________________________.
AGREEMENT
          The award evidenced by this Agreement has been made pursuant to the Stock Issuance Program in effect under the Plan
          All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement or in the attached Appendix.
     A. 
SHARE AWARD
          1. . Participant is hereby awarded _________shares of Common Stock, par value $.001 per share (the "Issued Shares"), in connection with his or her Service.
Award
          2. . Concurrently with the delivery of this Agreement to the Corporation, Participant shall pay the Corporation (in cash or by check) the aggregate par value of the Issued Shares and shall deliver a duly executed blank Assignment Separate from Certificate (in the form attached hereto as Exhibit I) with respect to the Issued Shares.
Par Value Payment
          3. . Until such time as the Corporation exercises the Repurchase Right, Participant (or any successor in interest) shall have all the rights of a stockholder (including voting, dividend and liquidation rights) with respect to the Issued Shares, subject, however, to the transfer restrictions and escrow requirements of this Agreement .
Stockholder Rights
          4. . The Corporation shall hold the Issued Shares in escrow until those shares have vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule. The Issued Shares which so vest shall be released to Participant upon his or her satisfaction of all federal, state and local income and employment taxes which the Corporation is required to withhold in connection with the vesting of the Issued Shares.
Escrow
          5. Under no circumstances shall shares of Common Stock or other assets be issued or delivered to Participant pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement unless, in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation or its successors, there shall have been compliance with all applicable requirements of applicable securities laws, all applicable listing requirements of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock is at the time listed for trading and all other requirements of law or of any regulatory bodies having jurisdiction over such issuance and delivery.
Compliance with Law
.
 
     B. 
TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS
          1. . Except for any Permitted Transfer, Participant shall not transfer, assign, encumber or otherwise dispose of any of the Issued Shares which are subject to the Repurchase Right.
Restriction on Transfer
          2. The stock certificate for the Issued Shares shall be endorsed with the following restrictive legend:
Restrictive Legend
.
     
"THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE UNVESTED AND SUBJECT TO CERTAIN REPURCHASE RIGHTS GRANTED TO THE CORPORATION AND ACCORDINGLY MAY NOT BE SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, ENCUMBERED, OR IN ANY MANNER DISPOSED OF EXCEPT IN CONFORMITY WITH THE TERMS OF A WRITTEN AGREEMENT DATED ____________, 200___BETWEEN THE CORPORATION AND THE REGISTERED HOLDER OF THE SHARES (OR THE PREDECESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE SHARES). A COPY OF SUCH AGREEMENT IS MAINTAINED AT THE CORPORATION'S PRINCIPAL CORPORATE OFFICES."
          3. . Each person (other than the Corporation) to whom the Issued Shares are transferred by means of a Permitted Transfer must, as a condition precedent to the validity of such transfer, acknowledge in writing to the Corporation that such person is bound by the provisions of this Agreement and that the transferred shares are subject to the Repurchase Right to the same extent such shares would be so subject if retained by Participant.
Transferee Obligations
     C. 
REPURCHASE RIGHT
          1. . The Corporation is hereby granted the right (the "Repurchase Right"), exercisable at any time during the ninety (90)-day period following the date Participant ceases Service for any reason, to repurchase at the Repurchase Price any or all of the Issued Shares in which Participant is not, at the time of his or her cessation of Service, vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph C.5 of this Agreement (such shares to be hereinafter referred to as the "Unvested Shares").
Grant
          2. . The Repurchase Right shall be exercisable by written notice delivered to each Owner of the Unvested Shares prior to the expiration of the ninety (90)-day exercise period. The notice shall indicate the number of Unvested Shares to be repurchased and the date on which the repurchase is to be effected, such date to be not more than thirty (30) days after the date of such notice. The certificates representing the Unvested Shares to be repurchased shall be delivered to the Corporation on the closing date specified for the repurchase. Concurrently with the receipt of such stock certificates, the Corporation shall pay to Owner, in cash or by check, an amount equal to the Repurchase Price for the Unvested Shares to be repurchased from Owner.
Exercise of the Repurchase Right
 
          3. . The Repurchase Right shall terminate with respect to any Unvested Shares for which it is not timely exercised under Paragraph C.2. In addition, the Repurchase Right shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any and all Issued Shares in which Participant vests in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph C.5.
Termination of the Repurchase Right
          4. . Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property (including cash paid other than as a regular cash dividend) which is by reason of any Recapitalization distributed with respect to the Issued Shares shall be immediately subject to the Repurchase Right and any escrow requirements hereunder, but only to the extent the Issued Shares are at the time covered by such right or escrow requirements. Appropriate adjustments to reflect such distribution shall be made to the number and/or class of securities subject to this Agreement and to the Repurchase Price per share to be paid upon the exercise of the Repurchase Right in order to reflect the effect of any such Recapitalization upon the Corporation's capital structure; , however, that the aggregate Repurchase Price shall remain the same.
Recapitalization
provided
          5. .
Change in Control
               (a) The Repurchase Right shall automatically terminate in its entirety, and all the Issued Shares shall vest in full immediately prior to the consummation of any Change in Control, except to the extent the Repurchase Right is to be assigned to the successor corporation in such Change in Control or otherwise continued in full force and effect pursuant to the terms of the Change in Control transaction.
               (i) To the extent the Repurchase Right remains in effect following a Change in Control, such right shall apply to any new securities or other property (including any cash payments) received in exchange for the Issued Shares in consummation of the Change in Control, but only to the extent the Issued Shares are at the time covered by such right. Appropriate adjustments shall be made to the Repurchase Price per share payable upon exercise of the Repurchase Right to reflect the effect (if any) of the Change in Control upon the Corporation's capital structure; , however, that the aggregate Repurchase Price shall remain the same. The new securities or other property (including any cash payments) issued or distributed with respect to the Issued Shares in consummation of the Change in Control shall be immediately deposited in escrow with the Corporation (or the successor entity) and shall not be released from escrow until Participant vests in such securities or other property in accordance with the same Vesting Schedule in effect for the Issued Shares.
provided
     D. 
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
          1. . Under Code Section 83, the excess of the fair market value of the Issued Shares on the date any forfeiture restrictions applicable to such shares lapse over the aggregate par value paid for such shares will be reportable as ordinary income on the lapse date. For this purpose, the term "forfeiture restrictions" includes the right of the Corporation to repurchase the Issued Shares pursuant to the Repurchase Right. Participant may elect under Code Section 83(b) to be taxed at the time the Issued Shares are acquired, rather than
Section 83(b) Election
 
when and as such Issued Shares cease to be subject to such forfeiture restrictions. Such election must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service within thirty (30) days after the date of this Agreement.
THE FORM FOR MAKING THIS ELECTION IS ATTACHED AS EXHIBIT II HERETO. PARTICIPANT UNDERSTANDS THAT FAILURE TO MAKE THIS FILING WITHIN THE APPLICABLE THIRTY (30)-DAY PERIOD WILL RESULT IN THE RECOGNITION OF ORDINARY INCOME AS THE FORFEITURE RESTRICTIONS LAPSE.
          2.
FILING RESPONSIBILITY
. PARTICIPANT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS PARTICIPANT'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY, AND NOT THE CORPORATION'S, TO FILE A TIMELY ELECTION UNDER CODE SECTION 83(b), EVEN IF PARTICIPANT REQUESTS THE CORPORATION OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES TO MAKE THIS FILING ON HIS OR HER BEHALF.
     E. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
          1. . The Corporation may assign the Repurchase Right to any person or entity selected by the Board, including (without limitation) one or more stockholders of the Corporation.
Assignment
          2. . Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Participant any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Participant) or of Participant, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Participant's Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.
At Will Employment
          3. . Any notice required to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, registered or certified, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party entitled to such notice at the address indicated below such party's signature line on this Agreement or at such other address as such party may designate by ten (10) days advance written notice under this paragraph to all other parties to this Agreement.
Notices
          4. . The failure of the Corporation in any instance to exercise the Repurchase Right shall not constitute a waiver of any other repurchase rights that may subsequently arise under the provisions of this Agreement or any other agreement between the Corporation and Participant. No waiver of any breach or condition of this Agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver of any other or subsequent breach or condition, whether of like or different nature.
No Waiver
          5. . If the Corporation shall make available, at the time and place and in the amount and form provided in this Agreement, the consideration for the Issued Shares to be repurchased in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, then from and after such time, the person from whom such shares are to be repurchased shall no longer have any rights as a holder of such shares (other than the right to receive payment of such
Cancellation of Shares
 
consideration in accordance with this Agreement). Such shares shall be deemed purchased in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, and the Corporation shall be deemed the owner and holder of such shares, whether or not the certificates therefor have been delivered as required by this Agreement.
          6. . Participant hereby agrees to take whatever additional action and execute whatever additional documents the Corporation may deem necessary or advisable in order to carry out or effect one or more of the obligations or restrictions imposed on either Participant or the Issued Shares pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Participant Undertaking
          7. . This Agreement constitutes the entire contract between the parties hereto with regard to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement is made pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and shall in all respects be construed in conformity with the terms of the Plan.
Agreement is Entire Contract
          8. . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California without resort to that State's conflict-of-laws rules.
Governing Law
          9. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          10. . The provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and upon Participant, Participant's assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Participant's estate, whether or not any such person shall have become a party to this Agreement and have agreed in writing to join herein and be bound by the terms hereof.
Successors and Assigns
 
          , the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year first indicated above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto SanDisk Corporation (the "Corporation"), (_________) shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation standing in his or her name on the books of the Corporation represented by Certificate No. ____________herewith and do(es) hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the Corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Dated: _________________, _____.
Signature
                    
                    
                    
Please do not fill in any blanks other than the signature line. Please sign exactly as you would like your name to appear on the issued stock certificate. The purpose of this assignment is to enable the Corporation to exercise the Repurchase Right without requiring additional signatures on the part of Participant.
Instruction:
 
This statement is being made under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, pursuant to Treas. Reg. Section 1.83-2.
This election must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center with which taxpayer files his or her Federal income tax returns and must be made within thirty (30) days after the execution date of the Stock Issuance Agreement. This filing should be made by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. Participant must retain two (2) copies of the completed form for filing with his or her Federal and state tax returns for the current tax year and an additional copy for his or her records.
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:
     A.  shall mean this Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
Agreement
     B.  shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
     C.  shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
Change in Control
          (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation's stockholders, securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation's outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction, or
unless
          (ii) a stockholder-approved sale, transfer or other disposition (including in whole or in part through one or more licensing arrangements) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, or
          (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons comprising a "group" within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation's existing stockholders.
     D.  shall mean shares of the Corporation's common stock, par value $.001 per share.
Common Stock
     E.  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
     F.  shall mean SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of SanDisk Corporation.
Corporation
     G.  shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
     H.  shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Paragraph A.1.
Issued Shares
     I.  shall mean Participant and all subsequent holders of the Issued Shares who derive their chain of ownership through a Permitted Transfer from Participant.
Owner
     J.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
     K.  shall mean the individual to whom the Issued Shares are awarded under the Stock Issuance Grant Program.
Participant
     L.  shall mean (i) a gratuitous transfer of the Issued Shares, Participant obtains the Corporation's prior written consent to such transfer or (ii) a transfer of title to the Issued Shares effected pursuant to Participant's will or the laws of inheritance following Participant's death.
Permitted Transfer
provided and only if
     M.  shall mean the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.
Plan
     N.  shall mean the particular entity, whether the Compensation Committee, the Board or any secondary Board committee, which is authorized to administer the Stock Issuance Program with respect to one or more classes of eligible persons, to the extent such entity is carrying out its administrative functions under that program with respect to the persons under its jurisdiction.
Plan Administrator
     O.  shall mean any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration.
Recapitalization
     P.  shall mean the par value of $.001 which the Participant paid per Issued Share.
Repurchase Price
     Q.  shall mean the right granted to the Corporation in accordance with Article C.
Repurchase Right
 
     R.  shall mean the Participant's performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established) in the capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor. For purposes of this Agreement, the Participant shall be deemed to cease Service immediately upon the occurrence of the either of the following events: (i) the Participant no longer performs services in any of the foregoing capacities for the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary or (ii) the entity for which the Participant is performing such services ceases to remain a Parent or Subsidiary of the Corporation, even though the Participant may subsequently continue to perform services for that entity. Service shall not be deemed to cease during a period of military leave, sick leave or other personal leave approved by the Corporation; provided, , that no Service credit shall be given for vesting purposes for any period the Participant is on a leave of absence, except to the extent otherwise required by law or expressly authorized by the Plan Administrator or by the Corporation's written policy on leaves of absence..
Service
however
     S.  shall mean the direct stock issuance program in effect under Article Three of the Plan.
Stock Issuance Program
     T.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
     U.  shall mean the vesting schedule specified in attached Schedule I, pursuant to which the Issued Shares are to vest in one or more installments over Participant's period of Board service.
Vesting Schedule
     V.  shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Paragraph C.1.
Unvested Shares
 
          The Issued Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation, at the Repurchase Price per share, upon Participant's cessation of Service (other than by reason of death or Permanent Disability) prior to vesting in the Issued Shares. Participant shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation's repurchase right will accordingly lapse with respect to, the Issued Shares in a series of installments as follows:

 
Exhibit 10.10
DIRECTOR GRANT
          made this ______day of , by and between SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and , a non-employee member of the Board.
AGREEMENT
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
          The award evidenced by this Agreement has been made pursuant to the Automatic Grant Program for non-employee Board members in effect under the Plan
          All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement or in the attached Appendix.
     A. 
SHARE AWARD
          1. . Participant is hereby awarded [____________] shares of Common Stock, par value $.001 per share (the "Issued Shares"), in connection with his or her service as a Board member.
Award
          2. . Concurrently with the delivery of this Agreement to the Corporation, Participant shall pay the Corporation (in cash or by check or direct offset against any amounts owed Participant by the Corporation) the aggregate par value of the Issued Shares and shall deliver a duly executed blank Assignment Separate from Certificate (in the form attached hereto as Exhibit I) with respect to the Issued Shares.
Par Value Payment
          3. . Until such time as the Corporation exercises the Repurchase Right, Participant (or any successor in interest) shall have all the rights of a stockholder (including voting, dividend and liquidation rights) with respect to the Issued Shares, subject, however, to the transfer restrictions of this Agreement.
Stockholder Rights
          4. . The Corporation shall have the right to hold the Issued Shares in escrow until those shares have vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule.
Escrow
          5. Under no circumstances shall shares of Common Stock or other assets be issued or delivered to Participant pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement unless, in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation or its successors, there shall have been compliance with all applicable requirements of applicable securities laws, all applicable listing requirements of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which the Common Stock is at the time listed for trading and all other requirements of law or of any regulatory bodies having jurisdiction over such issuance and delivery.
Compliance with Law
.
 
     B. 
TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS
          1. . Except for any Permitted Transfer, Participant shall not transfer, assign, encumber or otherwise dispose of any of the Issued Shares which are subject to the Repurchase Right.
Restriction on Transfer
          2. The stock certificate for the Issued Shares shall be endorsed with the following restrictive legend:
Restrictive Legend
.
     
"THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE UNVESTED AND SUBJECT TO CERTAIN REPURCHASE RIGHTS GRANTED TO THE CORPORATION AND ACCORDINGLY MAY NOT BE SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, ENCUMBERED, OR IN ANY MANNER DISPOSED OF EXCEPT IN CONFORMITY WITH THE TERMS OF A WRITTEN AGREEMENT DATED ____________, 200___BETWEEN THE CORPORATION AND THE REGISTERED HOLDER OF THE SHARES (OR THE PREDECESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE SHARES). A COPY OF SUCH AGREEMENT IS MAINTAINED AT THE CORPORATION'S PRINCIPAL CORPORATE OFFICES."
          3. . Each person (other than the Corporation) to whom the Issued Shares are transferred by means of a Permitted Transfer must, as a condition precedent to the validity of such transfer, acknowledge in writing to the Corporation that such person is bound by the provisions of this Agreement and that the transferred shares are subject to the Repurchase Right to the same extent such shares would be so subject if retained by Participant.
Transferee Obligations
     C. 
REPURCHASE RIGHT
          1. . The Corporation is hereby granted the right (the "Repurchase Right"), exercisable at any time during the ninety (90)-day period following the date Participant ceases Service for any reason other than death or Permanent Disability, to repurchase at the Repurchase Price any or all of the Issued Shares in which Participant is not, at the time of his or her cessation of Service, vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph C.5 of this Agreement (such shares to be hereinafter referred to as the "Unvested Shares").
Grant
          2. . The Repurchase Right shall be exercisable by written notice delivered to each Owner of the Unvested Shares prior to the expiration of the ninety (90)-day exercise period. The notice shall indicate the number of Unvested Shares to be repurchased and the date on which the repurchase is to be effected, such date to be not more than thirty (30) days after the date of such notice. The certificates representing the Unvested Shares to be repurchased shall be delivered to the Corporation on the closing date specified for the repurchase. Concurrently with the receipt of such stock certificates, the Corporation shall pay to Owner, in cash or by check, an amount equal to the Repurchase Price for the Unvested Shares to be repurchased from Owner.
Exercise of the Repurchase Right
 
          3. . The Repurchase Right shall terminate with respect to any Unvested Shares for which it is not timely exercised under Paragraph C.2. In addition, the Repurchase Right shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any and all Issued Shares in which Participant vests in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in attached Schedule I or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph C.5.
Termination of the Repurchase Right
          4. . Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property (including cash paid other than as a regular cash dividend) which is by reason of any Recapitalization distributed with respect to the Issued Shares shall be immediately subject to the Repurchase Right and any escrow requirements hereunder, but only to the extent the Issued Shares are at the time covered by such right or escrow requirements. Appropriate adjustments to reflect such distribution shall be made to the number and/or class of securities subject to this Agreement and to the Repurchase Price per share to be paid upon the exercise of the Repurchase Right in order to reflect the effect of any such Recapitalization upon the Corporation's capital structure; , however, that the aggregate Repurchase Price shall remain the same.
Recapitalization
provided
          5. . The Repurchase Right shall automatically lapse in its entirety, and the Issued Shares shall immediately vest in full, upon (i) the consummation of any Change in Control transaction or (ii) Participant's cessation of Service by reason of death or Permanent Disability.
Special Vesting Acceleration
     D. 
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
          1. . Under Code Section 83, the excess of the fair market value of the Issued Shares on the date any forfeiture restrictions applicable to such shares lapse over the aggregate par value paid for such shares will be reportable as ordinary income on the lapse date. For this purpose, the term "forfeiture restrictions" includes the right of the Corporation to repurchase the Issued Shares pursuant to the Repurchase Right. Participant may elect under Code Section 83(b) to be taxed at the time the Issued Shares are acquired, rather than when and as such Issued Shares cease to be subject to such forfeiture restrictions. Such election must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service within thirty (30) days after the date of this Agreement.
Section 83(b) Election
THE FORM FOR MAKING THIS ELECTION IS ATTACHED AS EXHIBIT II HERETO. PARTICIPANT UNDERSTANDS THAT FAILURE TO MAKE THIS FILING WITHIN THE APPLICABLE THIRTY (30)-DAY PERIOD WILL RESULT IN THE RECOGNITION OF ORDINARY INCOME AS THE FORFEITURE RESTRICTIONS LAPSE.
          2.
FILING RESPONSIBILITY
. PARTICIPANT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS PARTICIPANT'S SOLE RESPONSIBILITY, AND NOT THE CORPORATION'S, TO FILE A TIMELY ELECTION UNDER CODE SECTION 83(b), EVEN IF PARTICIPANT REQUESTS THE CORPORATION OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES TO MAKE THIS FILING ON HIS OR HER BEHALF.
 
     E. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
          1. . The Corporation may assign the Repurchase Right to any person or entity selected by the Board, including (without limitation) one or more stockholders of the Corporation.
Assignment
          2. . Nothing in this Agreement shall interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation and the Corporation's stockholders to remove Participant from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.
Impairment of Rights
          3. . Any notice required to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed effective upon personal delivery or upon deposit in the U.S. mail, registered or certified, postage prepaid and properly addressed to the party entitled to such notice at the address indicated below such party's signature line on this Agreement or at such other address as such party may designate by ten (10) days advance written notice under this paragraph to all other parties to this Agreement.
Notices
          4. . The failure of the Corporation in any instance to exercise the Repurchase Right shall not constitute a waiver of any other repurchase rights that may subsequently arise under the provisions of this Agreement or any other agreement between the Corporation and Participant. No waiver of any breach or condition of this Agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver of any other or subsequent breach or condition, whether of like or different nature.
No Waiver
          5. . If the Corporation shall make available, at the time and place and in the amount and form provided in this Agreement, the consideration for the Issued Shares to be repurchased in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, then from and after such time, the person from whom such shares are to be repurchased shall no longer have any rights as a holder of such shares (other than the right to receive payment of such consideration in accordance with this Agreement). Such shares shall be deemed purchased in accordance with the applicable provisions hereof, and the Corporation shall be deemed the owner and holder of such shares, whether or not the certificates therefor have been delivered as required by this Agreement.
Cancellation of Shares
          6. . Participant hereby agrees to take whatever additional action and execute whatever additional documents the Corporation may deem necessary or advisable in order to carry out or effect one or more of the obligations or restrictions imposed on either Participant or the Issued Shares pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Participant Undertaking
          7. . This Agreement constitutes the entire contract between the parties hereto with regard to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement is made pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and shall in all respects be construed in conformity with the terms of the Plan.
Agreement is Entire Contract
 
          8. . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California without resort to that State's conflict-of-laws rules.
Governing Law
          9. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          10. . The provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Corporation and its successors and assigns and upon Participant, Participant's assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Participant's estate, whether or not any such person shall have become a party to this Agreement and have agreed in writing to join herein and be bound by the terms hereof.
Successors and Assigns
          , the parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year first indicated above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
          FOR VALUE RECEIVED hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto SanDisk Corporation (the "Corporation"), (_________) shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation standing in his or her name on the books of the Corporation represented by Certificate No. herewith and do(es) hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the Corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
Dated: _________________, _____.
Signature
                    
                    
                    
Please do not fill in any blanks other than the signature line. Please sign exactly as you would like your name to appear on the issued stock certificate. The purpose of this assignment is to enable the Corporation to exercise the Repurchase Right without requiring additional signatures on the part of Participant.
Instruction:
 
This statement is being made under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, pursuant to Treas. Reg. Section 1.83-2.
This election must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service Center with which taxpayer files his or her Federal income tax returns and must be made within thirty (30) days after the execution date of the Stock Issuance Agreement. This filing should be made by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. Participant must retain two (2) copies of the completed form for filing with his or her Federal and state tax returns for the current tax year and an additional copy for his or her records.
 
          The following definitions shall be in effect under the Agreement:
     A.  shall mean this Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
Agreement
     B.  shall mean the automatic option grant program for non-employee Board members in effect under Article Four of the Plan.
Automatic Grant Program
     C.  shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.
Board
     D.  shall mean a change in ownership or control of the Corporation effected through any of the following transactions:
Change in Control
          (i) a merger, consolidation or other reorganization approved by the Corporation's stockholders, securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the voting securities of the successor corporation are immediately thereafter beneficially owned, directly or indirectly and in substantially the same proportion, by the persons who beneficially owned the Corporation's outstanding voting securities immediately prior to such transaction, or
unless
          (ii) a stockholder-approved sale, transfer or other disposition (including in whole or in part through one or more licensing arrangements) of all or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, or
          (iii) the closing of any transaction or series of related transactions pursuant to which any person or any group of persons comprising a "group" within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b)(1) of the 1934 Act (other than the Corporation or a person that, prior to such transaction or series of related transactions, directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by or is under common control with, the Corporation) becomes directly or indirectly the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing (or convertible into or exercisable for securities possessing) more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the Corporation's securities (as measured in terms of the power to vote with respect to the election of Board members) outstanding immediately after the consummation of such transaction or series of related transactions, whether such transaction involves a direct issuance from the Corporation or the acquisition of outstanding securities held by one or more of the Corporation's existing stockholders.
     E.  shall mean shares of the Corporation's common stock, par value $.001 per share.
Common Stock
     F.  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
     G.  shall mean SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of SanDisk Corporation.
Corporation
     H.  shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established), subject to the control and direction of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and method of performance.
Employee
     I.  shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Paragraph A.1.
Issued Shares
     J.  shall mean Participant and all subsequent holders of the Issued Shares who derive their chain of ownership through a Permitted Transfer from Participant.
Owner
     K.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Parent
     L.  shall mean the non-employee Board member to whom the Issued Shares are awarded under the Automatic Grant Program.
Participant
     M.  shall mean the inability of Participant to perform his or her usual duties as a Board member or other Service status by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.
Permanent Disability
     N.  shall mean (i) a gratuitous transfer of the Issued Shares, Participant obtains the Corporation's prior written consent to such transfer or (ii) a transfer of title to the Issued Shares effected pursuant to Participant's will or the laws of inheritance following Participant's death.
Permitted Transfer
provided and only if
     O.  shall mean the Corporation's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.
Plan
     P.  shall mean any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the Corporation's outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration.
Recapitalization
     Q.  shall mean the par value of $.001 which the Participant paid per Issued Share.
Repurchase Price
     R.  shall mean the right granted to the Corporation in accordance with Article C.
Repurchase Right
 
     S.  shall mean Participant's performance of services for the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary, whether now existing or subsequently established) in the capacity of an Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent advisor.
Service
     T.  shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
Subsidiary
     U.  shall mean the vesting schedule specified in attached Schedule I, pursuant to which the Issued Shares are to vest in one or more installments over Participant's period of Board service.
Vesting Schedule
     V.  shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Paragraph C.1.
Unvested Shares
 
          The Issued Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation, at the Repurchase Price per share, upon Participant's cessation of Service (other than by reason of death or Permanent Disability) prior to vesting in the Issued Shares. Participant shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation's repurchase right will accordingly lapse with respect to, the Issued Shares in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon Participant's completion of each year of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) over the four (4)-year period measured from ____________, 200___.
          The Issued Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Corporation, at the Repurchase Price per share, upon Participant's cessation of Service (other than by reason of death or Permanent Disability) prior to vesting in the Issued Shares. Participant shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Corporation's repurchase right will accordingly lapse with respect to, the Issued Shares upon the earlier of (i) Participant's completion of the one (1)-year period of Service (whether as a non-employee Board member, Employee or consultant) measured from ____________, 200___or (ii) Participant's continuation in such Service capacity through the day immediately preceding the next annual stockholders meeting following such measurement date.


