FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20050421162726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 21, 2005, SanDisk Corporation ("the Registrant") issued a press release to report its financial results for its first quarter ended April 3, 2005. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be "furnished" and therefore shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 21, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SUNNYVALE, CA, April 21, 2005  SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, today announced results for the first quarter ended April 3, 2005. Total first quarter revenues increased 17% on a year-over-year basis to $451 million. First quarter net income was $75 million, up 17% compared to $64 million in the first quarter of 2004. Fully diluted earnings per share were $0.39, up 15% compared with $0.34 in the first quarter of 2004.
"The first quarter was another good quarter for SanDisk coming off of the strong fourth quarter holiday sales. We are particularly pleased with this quarter's profitability. Shipments from 90-nanometer chips increased to more than 80% of our first quarter's captive supply as 90-nanometer yields exceeded our expectations. Our product gross margins grew to 37%, driven by our increased 90-nanometer output and a modest 10% sequential decline in the average price per megabyte. Industry-wide supply for NAND memory is currently well balanced with growing demand from existing applications and new markets. Demand in the first quarter was exceptionally strong for our high capacity cards, and royalty revenues grew nicely reflecting the continuing growth of the NAND flash market for our licensees," said SanDisk CEO Eli Harari. "As we move forward in 2005, we believe SanDisk is well positioned to continue expanding into new markets such as the emerging market for our flash cards in handsets, the digital flash music player market and the exciting market for our cards in video game consoles such as the Sony PlayStation Portable."
Financial Results and Highlights
 
Scheduled Interview
SanDisk Corporation Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Sanjay Mehrotra, is scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Wake-Up Call", April 22, 2005 at approximately 6:50 a.m. EDT. Judy Bruner, SanDisk's Executive Vice President, Administration and CFO is scheduled to appear on Bloomberg TV "Market Line", April 22, 2005 at approximately 1:45 p.m. EDT.
Conference Call
SanDisk's first quarter 2005 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time, Thursday, April 21, 2005. The conference call will be web cast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial in number is (913) 981-4903. The call will also be available by telephone replay through Wednesday, April 27, 2005, by dialing (719) 457-0820 and entering the pass code 3497353. A copy of this press release will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business outlook, expectations for new product introductions, applications, markets and customers and scheduled appearances by certain of our executives that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others: slower than expected growth in market demand for our products or a slower adoption rate for these products in current and new markets that we are targeting, slower than expected expansion of our global sales channels, fluctuations in operating
 
results, unexpected yield variances and longer than expected low yields and other possible delays related to our conversion to 90-nanometer and 70-nanometer NAND flash technology or the ramp-up of the new 300-millimeter flash fabrication facility, any interruption of or delay in supply from any of the semiconductor manufacturing facilities that supply products to us, our inability to make additional planned smaller geometry conversions in a timely manner, future average selling price erosion that may be more severe than our expectations due to possible excess industry capacity of flash memory either from existing suppliers or from new competitors or decreased demand, price increases from non-captive flash memory sources and third-party subcontractors, higher than expected operating expenses, higher than anticipated capital equipment expenditures, adverse global economic and geo-political conditions, including adverse currency exchange rates and acts of terror, the timely development, internal qualification and customer acceptance of new products that are based on the 90-nanometer and 70-nanometer NAND technologies, fluctuations in license and royalty revenues, business interruption due to earthquakes or other natural disasters, particularly in areas in the Pacific Rim and Japan where we manufacture and assemble products, scheduled appearances by our executives could be cancelled or delayed by us or the network and the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, the Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 2005 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
About SanDisk
SanDisk is the original inventor of flash storage cards and is the world's largest supplier of flash data storage card products using its patented, high-density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is headquartered in Sunnyvale, CA and has operations worldwide, with more than half its sales outside the U.S.
SanDisk and SanDisk Ultra are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries. Sansa and SanDisk Extreme are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation. SanDisk is an authorized licensee of the SD trademark. Memory Stick PRO Duo is a trademark of Sony Corporation. Other brand names mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of their respective holders.
 
 
 


