FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20060724161114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provision (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 24, 2006, SanDisk Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release to report its financial results for its second quarter ended July 2, 2006. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
     In addition to the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Registrant's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant. For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for stock compensation in accordance with SFAS 123(R) effective January 2, 2006 and the acquisition of Matrix Semiconductor in January 2006, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting. These non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. Further, management uses non-GAAP information as certain non-cash charges such as amortization of purchased intangibles and stock based compensation do not reflect the cash operating results of the business and certain one-time expenses such as write-off of acquired in-process technology that do not reflect the ongoing results. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be "furnished" and therefore shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
      (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 24, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     SUNNYVALE, CA, July 24, 2006  SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, today announced results for the second quarter ended July 2, 2006. Total second quarter revenues increased 40% on a year-over-year basis to $719 million. Second quarter net income as reported in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) was $96 million, or $0.47 per diluted share.
     Excluding the impact of stock compensation expense and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets and the related tax effect, second quarter non-GAAP net income grew 67% to $118 million, or $0.58 per diluted share, which compares to the second quarter 2005 GAAP results of $70 million, or $0.37 per diluted share.
     "The second quarter was an excellent quarter for both our OEM and our retail business. Mobile cards sold into handsets were the star performer with more than 15 million cards sold in the quarter. Our microSD card has become our number one product in units and our second largest product by revenue. Our Sansa e200 audio players have been well received, solidifying our clear #2 share for flash players in U.S. retail in the second quarter. Our SanDisk Extreme high performance cards for professional photographers were our fastest growing product line in the quarter. Solid execution of the 300-millimeter fab ramp and 8 gigabit 70-nanometer MLC shipments contributed to improved product margins despite a challenging industry-wide pricing environment. The cumulative pricing reductions implemented over the past two quarters are showing positive demand elasticity as evidenced by 20% growth in average capacity and 46% more megabytes sold compared to the first quarter," said Eli Harari, chairman and chief executive officer of SanDisk Corporation. "We are optimistic about growth in demand in our target markets in the second half and with Fab 3 costs steadily declining and our captive capacity ramping, we believe we are well positioned for the anticipated demand upswing in the back half of this year."
TM
TM
TM
Metrics and Highlights
 
SanDisk Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo," on July 24, 2006 at approximately 1:10 p.m. PDT. Judy Bruner, SanDisk's Executive Vice President, Administration and CFO is scheduled to appear on Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg Radio Report," July 25, 2006 at approximately 3:20 a.m. PDT.
Scheduled Interviews
SanDisk's second quarter 2006 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. PDT, Monday, July 24, 2006. The conference call will be webcast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is (913) 981-4901. A copy of this press release will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
Conference Call
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook for the second half of 2006, including anticipated increased demand for our products, market supply and demand, expected captive manufacturing cost reductions and scheduled appearances by our CEO and CFO that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others: slower than expected growth in market demand for our products or a slower adoption rate for these products in current and new markets that we are targeting, any interruption of or delay in supply from any of the semiconductor manufacturing or subcontracting facilities, including test and assembly facilities that supply products to us, slower than expected expansion of our global sales channels, fluctuations in operating results, unexpected yield variances related to our conversion to 70-nanometer NAND flash technology or the ramp-up of the 300mm flash fabrication facility, our inability to make additional planned smaller geometry conversions in a timely manner, future average selling price erosion that may be more severe than our expectations due to decreased demand or possible excess industry capacity of flash memory from ourselves as well as from existing suppliers or from new competitors, less than expected growth in the average megabyte capacity per card, price increases from non-captive flash memory sources and third-party subcontractors, higher than expected operating expenses, higher than anticipated capital equipment
Forward-Looking Statements
 
expenditures, adverse global economic and geo-political conditions, including adverse currency exchange rates and acts of terror and war, the timely development, internal qualification and customer acceptance of new products that are based on 70-nanometer NAND technology, fluctuations in license and royalty revenues, business interruption due to earthquakes, hurricanes, pandemics, power outages or other natural disasters, particularly in areas in the Pacific Rim and Japan where we manufacture and assemble products, potential impact of high energy prices and other global events outside of our control which could adversely impact consumer confidence and hence reduce demand for our products, scheduled appearances by our executives could be cancelled or delayed by us or the network, and the other risks detailed from time-to-time under the caption "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
SanDisk is the original inventor of flash storage cards and is the world's largest supplier of flash data storage card products using its patented, high-density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is headquartered in Milpitas, CA and has operations worldwide with more than half its sales outside the U.S.
About SanDisk
SanDisk and SanDisk Extreme are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries. Memory Stick PRO is a trademark of Sony Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 


