FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20061019161232.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provision (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 19, 2006, SanDisk Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release to report its financial results for its third quarter ended October 1, 2006.
     The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. In addition to the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Registrant's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant. For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for stock compensation in accordance with SFAS 123(R) effective January 2, 2006 and the acquisition of Matrix Semiconductor in January 2006, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting. These non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. Further, management uses non-GAAP information as certain non-cash charges such as amortization of purchased intangibles and stock based compensation do not reflect the cash operating results of the business and certain one-time expenses such as write-off of acquired in-process technology that do not reflect the ongoing results. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be "furnished" and therefore shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 19, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
          Milpitas, CA, October 19, 2006  SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, today announced results for the third quarter ended October 1, 2006. Total third quarter revenue increased 27% on a year-over-year basis to a record $751 million. Third quarter net income as reported in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) was $103 million, or $0.51 per diluted share.
          Excluding the impact of stock compensation expense and amortization of acquisition related intangible assets and the related tax effects, third quarter non-GAAP net income grew 15% to $124 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, which compares to the third quarter 2005 GAAP net income of $107 million, or $0.55 per diluted share.
          "We are very pleased with our third quarter results," said Eli Harari, chairman and chief executive officer of SanDisk Corporation. "Demand for our mobile products continued to be strong in the fast growing mobile phone market and we are pleased with our flash audio player U.S retail market share gains in the third quarter. Despite a challenging pricing environment in the third quarter we delivered non-GAAP operating margin of 21%, primarily due to our highly competitive product cost structure from our captive Flash business ventures in Japan. We expect to benefit in the fourth quarter from projected seasonally strong holiday sales of digital cameras, handsets, flash audio players, USB flash drives and gaming consoles and we now believe growth in our megabytes sold will be approximately 200% for 2006."
 
Scheduled Interviews
SanDisk Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo," on October 19, 2006 at approximately 1:10 p.m. PDT. Judy Bruner, SanDisk's Executive Vice President, Administration and CFO is scheduled to appear on Bloomberg TV's "Bloomberg On The Markets" and Bloomberg Radio's "Bloomberg on the Radio," October 20, 2006 beginning at approximately 7:40 a.m. PDT.
Conference Call
SanDisk's third quarter 2006 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. PDT, Thursday, October 19, 2006. The conference call will be webcast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is (913) 981-5523. A copy of this press release will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook for the forth quarter of 2006, including anticipated increased demand for our products, market supply and demand, expected fabrication production schedules and scheduled appearances by our CEO and CFO that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others: slower than expected growth in market demand for our products or a slower adoption rate for these products in current and new markets that we are targeting, any interruption of or delay in supply from any of the semiconductor manufacturing or subcontracting facilities, including test and assembly facilities that supply products to us, slower than expected expansion of our global sales channels, fluctuations in operating results, unexpected yield variances related to our conversion to 70-nanometer NAND flash technology or the ramp-up of the 300mm flash fabrication facility, our inability to make additional planned smaller geometry conversions in a timely manner, future average selling price erosion that may be more severe than our expectations due to decreased demand or possible excess industry capacity of flash memory from ourselves as well as from existing suppliers or from new competitors, less than expected growth in the average megabyte capacity per card, price increases from non-captive flash memory sources and third-party subcontractors, higher than expected operating expenses, higher than anticipated capital equipment expenditures, adverse global economic and geo-political conditions, including adverse currency exchange rates and acts of terror and war, the timely development, internal qualification and customer acceptance of new
 
products that are based on 70-nanometer NAND technology, fluctuations in license and royalty revenues, business interruption due to earthquakes, hurricanes, pandemics, power outages or other natural disasters, particularly in areas in the Pacific Rim and Japan where we manufacture and assemble products, potential impact of high energy prices and other global events outside of our control which could adversely impact consumer confidence and hence reduce demand for our products, risks related to our potential acquisition of msystems, including that the acquisition may not be consummated in a timely manner or at all, that we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to integration challenges, the loss of customers, suppliers, distributors or other third parties or other issues, that we may incur substantial costs or other damages associated with pending or future litigation related to the merger or costs or damages related to msystems' prior stock option grant practices and that we may incur charges or other accounting changes as a result of the merger, the risk that scheduled appearances by our executives could be cancelled or delayed by us or the network, and the other risks detailed from time-to-time under the caption "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
About SanDisk
SanDisk is the original inventor of flash storage cards and is the world's largest supplier of flash data storage card products using its patented, high-density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is headquartered in Milpitas, CA and has operations worldwide with more than half its sales outside the U.S.
SanDisk is a trademark of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries. msystems is a trademark of msystems Ltd.
 
 
 
 
 
 


