FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20070126163250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provision (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     As previously reported on a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 22, 2006, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 30, 2006 by and among SanDisk Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("SanDisk"), Project Desert Ltd., an Israeli corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of SanDisk ("Merger Sub") and msystems Ltd., an Israeli corporation ("msystems"), Merger Sub merged (the "Merger") with and into msystems, with msystems surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of SanDisk. The Merger closed and became effective on November 19, 2006. This amendment is being furnished to provide the pro forma financial statements required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (b) Pro Forma Financial Information
          The following information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference:
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 26, 2007 SANDISK CORPORATION
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     On November 19, 2006, SanDisk Corporation ("SanDisk") completed the acquisition of msystems Ltd. ("msystems") in a stock for stock transaction (the "Merger") announced on July 30, 2006. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are based on the historical financial statements of SanDisk and msystems, after giving effect to the acquisition of msystems by SanDisk, using the purchase method of accounting and applying the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended October 1, 2006 and the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006 are presented as if the acquisition had occurred on January 3, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet is presented as if the acquisition had occurred on October 1, 2006. You should read this information in conjunction with the:
     The pro forma information presented is for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the financial position or results of operations that would have been realized if the Merger had been completed on the dates indicated, nor is it indicative of future operating results or financial position. The pro forma adjustments only include those adjustments that are directly attributable to the transaction and that have a continuing impact to SanDisk. They are based upon currently available information and certain estimates and assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
     In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, or SFAS 141, , the total estimated purchase price, calculated as described in Note 1 to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, has been preliminarily allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values. SanDisk's management has estimated the preliminary fair value of the intangible assets and tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values of long-term debt and unvested options and stock appreciation rights assumed were based on market prices as of November 17, 2006. Any differences between the fair value of the consideration issued and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be recorded as goodwill. Since these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values attributable to the Merger, the actual amounts recorded for the Merger may differ materially from the information presented. These allocations are subject to change pending further review of the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as well as the impact of potential restructuring activities, deferred taxes and actual transaction costs.
Business Combinations
     The valuation associated with unvested options and stock appreciation rights held by msystems employees reflected herein was calculated at the closing date of the Merger and does not consider employee terminations that may occur as a result of restructuring activities, which may significantly affect the amount, timing and recognition of the unearned compensation. Based on the fair value of SanDisk common stock at November 17, 2006, the amount of the stock-based compensation charge SanDisk would record associated with msystems employees would be approximately $55 million over the remaining estimated life of the stock-based awards after the closing of the Merger.
 
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the nine months ended October 1, 2006 has been derived from:
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006 has been derived from:
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of October 1, 2006 has been derived from:
 
 
 
 
1. BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
     On November 19, 2006, SanDisk Corporation ("SanDisk") completed the acquisition of msystems Ltd. ("msystems") in a stock for stock transaction (the "Merger") whereby msystems became a wholly-owned subsidiary of SanDisk. The transaction was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The total estimated purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion consists of SanDisk common stock valued at $1.4 billion, options and stock appreciation rights assumed with a fair value of $116 million and estimated direct transaction costs of $15 million.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet is presented to give effect to SanDisk's acquisition of msystems as if the transaction had been consummated on October 1, 2006. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations is presented as if the transaction had been consummated on January 3, 2005. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet provides for the issuance of approximately 29.4 million shares of SanDisk common stock at an average market price of $46.48, based upon a fixed exchange ratio of 0.76368, for each msystems ordinary share outstanding as of November 19, 2006. Under the purchase method of accounting, the fair value of the total consideration was measured using an average of SanDisk's closing share prices beginning two days before and ending two days after July 30, 2006, the date on which the acquisition was agreed to and announced.
     Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, each msystems stock option and stock appreciation right outstanding and unexercised as of November 19, 2006 was converted into a stock option and stock appreciation right to purchase SanDisk common stock. Based on msystems' stock options outstanding at November 19, 2006, SanDisk assumed msystems' options and stock appreciation rights to purchase approximately 5.4 million shares of SanDisk common stock. The fair value of options assumed was estimated using the Black-Scholes valuation model and a stock price of $46.48, which represents the average closing price of a share of SanDisk common stock from two trading days before to two trading days after the July 30, 2006 announcement date. The fair value of the assumed stock appreciation rights was determined using a lattice-binomial option pricing model.
     The total estimated purchase price of the Merger is as follows (in millions):
 
Preliminary Estimated Purchase Price Allocation
     The preliminary allocation of the total purchase price to msystems' tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based on their estimated fair values. The fair values of long-term debt and unvested stock options and stock appreciation rights assumed were based on the closing market price as of November 17, 2006. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary. Adjustments to these estimates may be included in the final allocation of the purchase price of msystems, if the adjustment is determined within the purchase price allocation period (up to twelve months from the closing date). The excess of the purchase price over the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed has been allocated to goodwill. The final determination of the purchase price allocation will be based on the fair values of assets acquired, including the fair values of in-process research and development, other identifiable intangibles and the fair values of assets and liabilities assumed as of the date that the merger is consummated, which will among other items change the amount of goodwill. The total purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion has been allocated as follows (in millions):
 
 
     We have estimated the fair value of certain tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Some of these estimates are subject to change, particularly those estimates relating to potential restructuring activities, deferred taxes and actual transaction costs. These estimates are based on a preliminary valuation and are subject to updated valuations and further review by management, which may result in material adjustments.
Identifiable intangible assets
     We have estimated the fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, which are subject to amortization, using the income approach. These estimates are based on a preliminary valuation and are subject to updated valuations and further review by management, particularly those estimates relating to supply agreements, which may result in material adjustments. The following table sets forth the components of these other intangible assets and their weighted average estimated useful lives (dollars in millions):
2. PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS
     The following pro forma adjustments are included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet:
(a) To eliminate disallowed deferred revenue that would have been recognized in the income statement had the acquisition occurred in the beginning of fiscal 2005.
(b) Adjustments to cost of sales (in millions):
 
(c) To record incremental expense related to msystems unvested options and stock appreciation rights assumed.
(d) Adjustments to sales and marketing (in millions):
(e) To eliminate msystems' in-process research and development write-off related to prior acquisitions.
(f) To record amortization of identifiable acquired intangibles of msystems related to customer relationships, backlog and trade names.
(g) To eliminate equity losses from SanDisk's minority interest in U3 LLC.
(h) To eliminate msystems' equity losses from U3 LLC.
(i) The pro forma number of shares used in the per share calculations reflects the weighted average number of msystems' ordinary shares combined with the outstanding shares of SanDisk common stock at November 19, 2006, adjusted to reflect the exchange ratio of 0.76368 shares of SanDisk common stock for each outstanding msystems' ordinary share. Additionally, the msystems 1% Convertible Senior Notes due 2035 (the "Notes") had a dilutive impact on the calculation of the weighted average shares outstanding for the period in the pro forma net income per share.
(j) To record fair value adjustments for investments and fixed assets acquired from msystems.
(k) To adjust msystems' deferred revenue to fair value, representing only the legal performance obligation under mystems' existing contracts.
(l) Adjustments to inventory (in millions):
(m) To record fair value of short-term receivables.
(n) Adjustments to goodwill (in millions):
(o) Adjustments to intangibles (in millions):
 
(p) Adjustments to other non-current assets (in millions):
(q) To record the accrual of direct acquisition-related costs.
(r) To adjust msystems' Notes to fair value.
(s) Adjustments to other non-current liabilities (in millions):
(t) Adjustments to stockholders' equity (in millions):


