FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20070426160926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provision (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 26, 2007, SanDisk Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release to report its financial results for its first quarter ended April 1, 2007.
     The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. In addition to the consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of product gross margin, operating income, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Registrant's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant. For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123(R) effective January 2, 2006 and the amortization of intangibles related to the acquisition of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006 and msystems Ltd. in November 2006, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting. These non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. Further, management uses non-GAAP information as certain non-cash charges such as amortization of purchased intangibles and share-based compensation do not reflect the cash operating results of the business and certain one-time expenses such as write-off of acquired in-process technology that do not reflect the ongoing results. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be "furnished" and therefore shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 26, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SanDisk Corporation 601 McCarthy Boulevard Milpitas, CA 95035-7932 Phone: 408-801-1000 Fax: 408-801-8657
Milpitas, CA, April 26, 2007  SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, today announced results for the first quarter ended April 1, 2007. First quarter revenue increased 26% on a year-over-year basis to $786 million and the net loss in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) was $0.6 million, or $0.00 per share, compared to GAAP net income of $35 million, or $0.17 per share, in the first quarter of 2006.
Excluding the impact of acquisition related charges, stock compensation expense and the related tax effect, first quarter non-GAAP net income was $45 million, or $0.19 per share, compared to first quarter 2006 non-GAAP net income of $90 million, or $0.44 per share.
"First quarter results reflected the current difficult market conditions," said Eli Harari, Chairman and CEO. "In the first quarter our industry experienced excess supply, sharp price declines, and depressed margins. These market conditions were exacerbated by weak seasonal consumer demand in retail. One highlight for the quarter was that the mobile market became our largest revenue generator with 27 million units sold in the quarter. Another highlight was the signing of an important licensing agreement with Hynix, which again validates our strong intellectual property portfolio. In another important milestone for our flash technology, this week Dell announced the launch of notebook PCs that incorporate our 32-gigabyte Solid State Drive (SSD)."
"Looking forward, we project a pick-up in demand during the seasonally strong back half of the second quarter. However, excess supply and depressed pricing is expected to continue through the second quarter, possibly extending through the summer months, putting pressure on our margins. Our outlook is optimistic for renewed growth heading into the fourth quarter of 2007
 
and forward to 2008. This optimism is based on our expectation of continuing penetration into multimedia handsets, the steady stream of exciting new consumer product introductions such as the Sansa Connect, and the exceptionally attractive price points for our products now available to consumers."
Key Metrics and Highlights
SanDisk Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo," on April 26, 2006 at approximately 1:20 p.m. PDT. Judy Bruner, SanDisk's Executive Vice President, Administration and CFO, is scheduled to appear on Bloomberg TV's "Bloomberg On The Markets", April 27, 2007 beginning at approximately 8:39 a.m. PDT.
Scheduled Interviews
 
SanDisk's first quarter 2007 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. PDT, Thursday, April 26, 2007. The conference call will be webcast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is (800) 238-9007. The dial-in password is 4311569. A copy of this press release will be furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
Conference Call
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP information referred to in this release is provided in the attached tables.
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook, anticipated increased demand for our mobile OEM products, anticipated design-in for products, demand for certain new products in new markets, seasonally lower retail sales, a decline in margins due to prevailing challenging market pricing for flash memory, market supply and demand, cost reductions, expected technology transitions and the timing and cost benefits thereof, our planned investments in advanced technologies, products, markets and our brand, and scheduled appearances by our Chairman and CEO and our CFO that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others:
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
SanDisk is the original inventor of flash storage cards and is the world's largest supplier of flash data storage card products using its patented, high-density flash memory and controller technology. SanDisk is headquartered in Milpitas, CA and has operations worldwide with more than half its sales outside the U.S.
About SanDisk
SanDisk, the SanDisk logo, and Sansa are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries. msystems is a trademark of msystems Ltd. Sansa Connect and Shaker are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation. SD, microSD and SDHC are trademarks. Other brand names mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s).
 
 
 
 
 
 


