FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20080721161500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provision (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 21, 2008, SanDisk Corporation (the "Registrant") issued a press release to report its financial results for its second quarter ended June 29, 2008.
     The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of product gross margin, operating income, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of the Registrant's current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant. For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for share-based compensation in accordance with SFAS 123(R) effective January 2, 2006 and the amortization of intangibles related to the acquisition of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006, msystems Ltd. in November 2006 and MusicGremlin, Inc. in June 2008, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting. These non-GAAP results are some of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. Further, management uses non-GAAP information as certain non-cash charges such as amortization of purchased intangibles and share-based compensation do not reflect the cash operating results of the business and certain one-time expenses such as write-off of acquired in-process technology do not reflect the ongoing results. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
     The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be "furnished" and therefore shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 21, 2008
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
SanDisk Corporation 601 McCarthy Boulevard Milpitas, CA 95035-7932 Phone: 408-801-1000 Fax: 408-801-8657
Milpitas, CA, July 21, 2008  SanDiskCorporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the world's largest supplier of flash storage card products, today announced results for the second quarter ended June 29, 2008, as well as steps to slow its supply growth. Total second-quarter revenue was $816 million, a decrease of 1% on a year-over-year basis. Net loss in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) was ($68) million, or ($0.30) per diluted share, compared to GAAP net income of $28 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2007.
Excluding the impact of acquisition-related charges, share-based compensation expense and the related tax effect, the second quarter non-GAAP net loss was ($22) million, or ($0.10) per diluted share, compared to the second quarter 2007 non-GAAP net income of $72 million, or $0.30 per diluted share.
SanDisk is delaying the start of the next phase of production ramp in Fab 4 and now expects it to start no sooner than April 2009. The company is also pushing out its decision to invest in Fab 5 until market conditions improve. These actions are aimed at reducing future capital expenditures and inventory growth in order to maintain a strong balance sheet.
"Our second quarter sales were well below our expectations due to the rapid deterioration in consumer confidence which impacted our sales in U.S. retail and to handset OEMs. Product gross margin was negatively impacted by the lower sales volume and a substantial inventory write-down," said Eli Harari, Chairman and CEO. "Overall demand is expected to improve in the upcoming holiday season; however, industry-wide Flash inventories remain excessive and pricing and margins will therefore remain under pressure until supply and demand come into balance. We are taking significant actions to slow our captive supply growth, which will reduce
 
our capital expenditure commitments, and allow us to better manage our inventory. We are also continuing to improve our cost structure through transitions to 43-nanometer MLC and the industry's first commercialized 3-bits per cell NAND flash. While the industry downturn has been more pronounced and severe than expected, we are optimistic about our long-term renewed growth when the market rebounds."
Key Metrics for Second Quarter of 2008
Scheduled Interview
SanDisk Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBC's "Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo," on July 21, 2008 at approximately 1:20 p.m. P.D.T.
Conference Call
SanDisk's second quarter 2008 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. P.D.T., Monday, July 21, 2008. The conference call will be webcast by CCBN and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at www.sandisk.com/IR and at www.streetevents.com for registered streetevents.com users. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is (913) 312-1402. The dial-in password is 9538040. A copy of this press release will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP information referred to in this release is provided in the attached tables.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook, anticipated increased demand for products, anticipated price and
 
margin declines, the expected cost benefits of 43-nanometer and 3-bit per cell manufacturing output in the second half of 2008, our plans for Fab 4 and our potential investment in Fab 5, the anticipated emergence of new markets for Flash storage and our long-term prospects, that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others:
Future results may differ materially from those previously reported. We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
About SanDisk
SanDisk Corporation, the inventor and world's largest supplier of flash storage cards, is a global leader in flash memory  from research, manufacturing and product design to consumer branding and retail distribution. SanDisk's product portfolio includes flash memory cards for mobile phones, digital cameras and camcorders, digital audio/video players, USB flash drives for consumers and the enterprise, embedded memory for mobile devices, and solid state drives for computers. SanDisk () is a Silicon Valley-based S&P 500 company, with more than half its sales outside the United States.
www.sandisk.com/corporate
SanDisk, and the SanDisk logo are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries.
 
 
 
 
 


