FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20091020160744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provision (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 20, 2009, SanDisk Corporation (the Registrant) issued a press release to report its financial results for its third quarter ended September 27, 2009.
The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.  In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses.  These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of the Registrants current financial performance and its prospects for the future.  Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant.  For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for share-based compensation, the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets related to acquisitions of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006, msystems Ltd. in November 2006 and MusicGremlin, Inc. in June 2008, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Registrants cash-settled convertible debt, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting.  These non-GAAP results are some of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods.  Further, management uses non-GAAP information that excludes certain non-cash charges, such as amortization of purchased intangible assets, share-based compensation, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with cash-settled convertible debt, as these non-GAAP charges do not reflect the cash operating results of the business or the ongoing results.  These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results.  These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing.  The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be furnished and therefore shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
      
SanDisk Corporation
601 McCarthy Boulevard
Milpitas, CA 95035-7932
Phone: 408-801-1000
Fax: 408-801-8657
 
 
 
 
Milpitas, CA, October 20, 2009 - SanDiskCorporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the global leader in flash memory cards, today announced results for the third quarter ended September 27, 2009.  Total third quarter revenue of $935 million increased 14% on a year-over-year basis and increased 28% on a sequential basis.  Net income, in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), was $231 million, or $0.99 per diluted share, compared to GAAP net loss of ($166) million or ($0.74) per share in the third quarter of 2008 and GAAP net income of $53 million, or $0.23 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2009.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related charges, share-based compensation expense, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with the cash-settled convertible note, third-quarter net income was $176 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of ($132) million or ($0.59) per share in the third quarter of 2008 and net income of $83 million or $0.36 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2009.  For reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP results, see accompanying financial tables and footnotes.
Our outstanding Q3 results reflect major gains in our OEM business with strong orders continuing into Q4.   Product gross margin improved dramatically, driven by favorable pricing and strong product cost reductions.  We are encouraged by improved industry fundamentals and our increasingly diversified global markets, which bode well for further growth in Q4 and in 2010, said Eli Harari, Chairman and CEO, SanDisk.
THIRD QUARTER 2009 METRICS & HIGHLIGHTS
Free cash flow generated was $220 million.
Total cash and equivalents, short and long-term investments at the end of the third quarter were $2.58 billion compared to $2.64 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2008 and $2.34 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2009.
Total revenue was $935 million, up 14% year-over-year and up 28% sequentially.
Product revenue was $814 million, up 18% year-over-year and up 33% sequentially.
License and royalty revenue was $121 million, down 8% year-over-year and up 1% sequentially.
GAAP product gross profit was $315 million, or 39% of product revenue, compared to GAAP product gross loss of ($138) million, or (20%) of product revenue, in the third quarter of 2008 and GAAP product gross profit of $129 million, or 21% of product revenue, in the second quarter of 2009.  Third quarter product gross profit included a $139 million benefit primarily from the sale of previously reserved inventory.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP product gross profit was $320 million, or 39% of product revenue, compared to non-GAAP product gross loss of ($121) million, or (17%) of product revenue, in the third quarter of 2008 and non-GAAP product profit of $134 million, or 22% of product revenue, in the second quarter of 2009.  Third quarter product gross profit included a $139 million benefit primarily from the sale of previously reserved inventory.
GAAP operating profit was $240 million, or 26% of total revenue, compared to GAAP operating loss of ($250) million, or (30%) of total revenue, in the third quarter of 2008 and GAAP operating profit of $68 million, or 9% of total revenue, in the second quarter of 2009.
Non-GAAP operating profit was $263 million, or 28% of total revenue, compared to non-GAAP operating loss of ($205) million, or (25%) of total revenue, in the third quarter of 2008 and non-GAAP operating profit of $94 million, or 13% of total revenue, in the second quarter of 2009.
Total units sold increased 31% year-over-year and increased 45% sequentially.
Gigabytes sold increased 107% year-over-year and increased 37% sequentially.
Average price per gigabyte sold declined 43% year-over-year and declined 3% sequentially.
Average retail card capacity was 4.22 gigabytes, an increase of 46% on a year-over-year basis and a decrease of 1% sequentially.
OTHER RECENT KEY ANNOUNCEMENTS
SanDisk began shipping the industrys first 8 gigabyte (GB)and 16GB SDHC and 8GB Memory Stick PRO Duo cards using four bits per cell memory technology.
1 
SanDisk began shipping the industrys fastest SanDisk Extreme ProCompact Flash memory card with read and write speeds up to 90 megabytes per second and with capacities ranging from 16GB to 64GB.
2
SanDisk launched the Sansa Clip+ MP3 player that features a microSD memory card slot.  The Sansa Clip+ MP3 player is fully compatible with SanDisk slotRadio and slotMusic cards, as well as any microSD card pre-loaded with music. 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
SanDisks third quarter 2009 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 P.M., Pacific Time, Tuesday, October 20, 2009, with SanDisk CEO Eli Harari joining the call from SanDisks Shanghai facility.  The conference call will be webcast and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at .  To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is 913-312-0702 and the dial-in password is 8643791.  A copy of this press release will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
http://www.sandisk.com/IR
SCHEDULED INTERVIEWS
 
SanDisk Corporation President and Chief Operating Officer, Sanjay Mehrotra, is scheduled to appear on CNBCs Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo, on October 20, 2009, at approximately 1:10 P.M., Pacific Time.
SanDisk Corporation Executive Vice-President, Administration and Chief Financial Officer, Judy Bruner, is scheduled to appear on Bloomberg Television on October 21, 2009, at approximately 6:35 A.M., Pacific Time.
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP information referred to in this release is provided in the attached tables.
 
1 GB = 1 billion bytes.
1 
 
Based on internal testing; performance may vary depending upon host device.
2 
 
 
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook, our expectations for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, and fiscal 2010, and our expectations regarding our business, including our OEM business, that are based on our current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others:
slower than expected, or no, growth in market demand for our products or a slower adoption rate for our products in markets that we are targeting including through new channels,
reduced demand or consumer confidence due to the continuing global economic downturn,
over-supply in the markets that we serve,
declines in average selling prices,
any interruption of or delay in supply from any of the semiconductor manufacturing or subcontracting facilities, including test and assembly facilities that supply products to us,
slower than expected expansion of our global sales channels,
fluctuations in operating results, unexpected yield variances and delays related to our conversion to smaller geometries of NAND flash technology,
increased memory component and other costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations to the U.S. dollar, particularly with respect to the Japanese yen,
business interruption due to earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural disasters, particularly in areas in the Pacific Rim and Japan where we manufacture and assemble products,
adverse results in litigation or regulatory actions affecting us, and
other risks detailed from time-to-time under the caption Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the second quarter ended June 28, 2009.
Future results may differ materially from those previously reported.  We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
ABOUT SANDISK
 
SanDisk Corporation, the inventor and worlds largest supplier of flash storage cards, is a global leader in flash memory  from research, manufacturing and product design to consumer branding and retail distribution.  SanDisks product portfolio includes flash memory cards for mobile phones, digital cameras and camcorders, digital audio/video players, USB flash drives for consumers and the enterprise, embedded memory for mobile devices, and solid state drives for computers.  SanDisk () is a Silicon Valley-based S&P 500 company with more than half its sales outside the United States.
www.sandisk.com/corporate
SanDisk, the SanDisk logo, Sansa, CompactFlash and SanDisk Extreme are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries. slotRadio is a trademark of SanDisk Corporation.  slotMusic is a trademark of SLOTmedia Group LLC.   SDHC and microSD are trademarks of SD-3C LLC.  Memory Stick PRO Duo is a trademark of Sony Corporation.  Other brand names mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s).
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  
As adjusted for the retrospective adoption of new accounting requirements, effective on December 29, 2008, relating to non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Companys cash-settled convertible debt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  
To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we use non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Company.  For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses we recorded for share-based compensation, the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets related to acquisitions of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006, msystems Ltd. in November 2006 and MusicGremlin, Inc. in June 2008, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with our cash-settled convertible debt, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in our financial reporting. These non-GAAP results are some of the primary indicators management uses for assessing our performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods.  Further, management uses non-GAAP information that excludes certain non-cash charges, such as amortization of purchased intangible assets, share-based compensation, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with our cash-settled convertible debt, as these non-GAAP charges do not reflect the cash operating results of the business or the ongoing results.  These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results.  These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
(2)  
As adjusted for the retrospective adoption of new accounting requirements, effective on December 29, 2008, relating to non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Companys cash-settled convertible debt.
 
(a)   Share-based compensation expense.
 
(b)  
Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, primarily core and developed technology, related to the acquisitions of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. (January 2006), msystems Ltd. (November 2006), and MusicGremlin, Inc. (June 2008).
 
(c)  
Incremental interest expense relating to the non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Companys cash-settled convertible debt.
 
(d)  
Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP to GAAP adjustments and a valuation allowance on deferred taxes.
 
 
 
 
 
(1)  
As adjusted for the retrospective adoption of new accounting requirements, effective on December 29, 2008, relating to non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Companys cash-settled convertible debt.
 
 
 
 
(1)  
As adjusted for the retrospective adoption of new accounting requirements, effective on December 29, 2008, relating to non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Companys cash-settled convertible debt.
 


