FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20100421160721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provision (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 21, 2010, SanDisk Corporation (the Registrant) issued a press release to report its financial results for its first quarter ended April 4, 2010.
The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.  In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses.  These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of the Registrants current financial performance and its prospects for the future.  Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant.  For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for share-based compensation, the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets related to acquisitions of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006 and MusicGremlin, Inc. in June 2008, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Registrants cash-settled convertible debt, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting.  These non-GAAP results are some of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods.  Further, management uses non-GAAP information that excludes certain non-cash charges, such as amortization of purchased intangible assets, share-based compensation, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with cash-settled convertible debt, as these non-GAAP charges do not reflect the cash operating results of the business or the ongoing results.  These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results.  These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing.  The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be furnished and therefore shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
      
SanDisk Corporation
601 McCarthy Boulevard
Milpitas, CA 95035-7932
Phone: 408-801-1000
Fax: 408-801-8657
 
Cash flow from operations was $328 million and free cash flow was $329 million.
Total cash and equivalents, short and long-term marketable securities at the end of the first quarter were $3.30 billion compared to $2.38 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2009 and $3.02 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of 2009.
Average price per gigabyte sold remained unchanged year-over-year and declined 7% sequentially.
OTHER RECENT KEY ANNOUNCEMENTS
SanDisk introduced its 64 gigabyte SanDisk iNAND Embedded Flash Drives based on 3-bit-per-cell NAND flash technology, that can be used for boot, system code and mass storage functions in mobile phones and portable devices.
SanDisk began shipping its highest capacity SD card, the 64 gigabyte SanDisk Ultra SDXC card, that is capable of up to 15 megabytes/sec read speed and has a Class 4 speed rating, designed for capturing and storing massive 1080p High-Definition video files.
SanDisk began shipping its SanDisk G3 Solid State Drives to retailers in North America and Europe at capacities of 60 and 120 gigabytes.
SanDisk began shipping the industrys highest capacity 32 gigabyte microSDHC card for mobile phones. 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
SanDisks first quarter 2010 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 P.M., Pacific Time, Wednesday, April 21, 2010.  The conference call will be webcast and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at
http://www.sandisk.com/IR
.  To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is 719-457-2656 and the dial-in password is 7487142.  A copy of this press release will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
SCHEDULED INTERVIEWS
 
SanDisk Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBCs Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo, on April 21, 2010, at approximately 1:15 P.M., Pacific Time.
A complete reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP information referred to in this release is provided in the attached tables.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook, our expectations for fiscal year 2010 and our expectations regarding our business, including expected flash memory demand in 2010 and beyond, and our mobile business and cost structure, that are based on our current expectations and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others:
competitive pricing pressures, resulting in lower average selling prices and lower or negative product gross margins;
unpredictable or changing demand for our products, particularly for certain form factors or capacities;
excess captive memory output or capacity which could result in write-downs for excess inventory, lower of cost or market reserves, fixed costs associated with under-utilized capacity, or other consequences;
insufficient non-memory materials or capacity from our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet demand, or increases in cost of non-memory materials or capacity;
less than anticipated demand, including due to economic weakness in our markets;
our products may not perform as expected; and
other risks detailed from time-to-time under the caption Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2010.
Future results may differ materially from those previously reported.  We do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
 
 
ABOUT SANDISK
 
SanDisk Corporation is the global leader in flash memory cards, from research, manufacturing and product design to consumer branding and retail distribution. SanDisk's product portfolio includes flash memory cards for mobile phones, digital cameras and camcorders; digital audio/video players; USB flash drives for consumers and the enterprise; embedded memory for mobile devices; and solid state drives for computers. SanDisk is a Silicon Valley-based S&P 500 company, with more than half its sales outside the United States.
SanDisk, the SanDisk logo and SanDisk Ultra are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries.  iNAND is a trademark of SanDisk Corporation.  microSDHC, and SDXC are trademarks of SD-3C LLC.  Other brand names mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s).
 
 
 
 
 
 
SanDisk Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


