FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20100722160659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 22, 2010, SanDisk Corporation (the Registrant) issued a press release to report its financial results for its second quarter ended July 4, 2010.
The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.  In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses.  These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of the Registrants current financial performance and its prospects for the future.  Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant.  For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for share-based compensation, the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets related to acquisitions of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006 and MusicGremlin, Inc. in June 2008, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Registrants cash-settled convertible debt, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting.  These non-GAAP results are some of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods.  Further, management uses non-GAAP information that excludes certain non-cash charges, such as amortization of purchased intangible assets, share-based compensation, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with cash-settled convertible debt, as these non-GAAP charges do not reflect the cash operating results of the business or the ongoing results.  These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results.  These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing.  The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be furnished and therefore shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

.1
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
SanDisk Corporation
601 McCarthy Boulevard
Milpitas, CA 95035-7932
Phone: 408-801-1000
Fax: 408-801-8657
Milpitas, CA, July 22, 2010 - SanDiskCorporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the global leader in flash memory cards, today announced results for the second quarter ended July 4, 2010.  Total second quarter revenue of $1.18 billion increased 61% on a year-over-year basis and increased 9% on a sequential basis.  Net income, in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), was $258 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, compared to GAAP net income of $53 million, o r $0.23 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2009 and GAAP net income of $235 million, or $0.99 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes the impact of share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, non-cash economic interest expense associated with the cash-settled convertible note, and related tax adjustments and valuation allowance, second-quarter net income was $258 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, compared to net income of $83 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2009 and net income of $225 million, or $0.95 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010.  For reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP results, see accompanying financial tables and footnotes.
SanDisk delivered another excellent quarter, with OEM demand driving record unit and gigabytes sold.  We achieved 47% total gross margin, due to cost reductions and a stable pricing environment.  We exited the quarter with a record high cash balance of $3.7 billion or $2.6 billion net of debt.  For the second half of the year, demand from our diversified customer base is very strong.  We expect our recent announcement of our Fab 5 joint venture with Toshiba to allow us to meet our customers growing demand for flash in the coming years, sai d Eli Harari, Chairman and CEO of SanDisk.
 
SECOND QUARTER 2010 METRICS & HIGHLIGHTS
Total revenue was $1.18 billion, up 61% year-over-year and up 9% sequentially.
Product revenue was $1.09 billion, up 79% year-over-year and up 10% sequentially.
License and royalty revenue was $88 million, down 27% year-over-year and down 6% sequentially.
Total gross profit, product gross profit and operating income compared on a year-over-year and sequential basis are shown in the table below:
Cash flow from operations was $385 million and free cash flow was $363 million.
Total cash and equivalents, short and long-term marketable securities at the end of the second quarter were $3.7 billion compared to $2.3 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2009 and $3.3 billion at the end of the first quarter of 2010.
Average price per gigabyte sold declined 18% on a year-over-year basis and declined 8% sequentially.
 
 
 
 
 
OTHER RECENT KEY ANNOUNCEMENTS
Separately today, SanDisk announced that Dr. Eli Harari, Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will retire from his current positions on December 31, 2010.  As part of the succession planning process, the Board of Directors appointed Sanjay Mehrotra, currently SanDisks President and Chief Operating Officer, as the new Chief Executive Officer of the company, effective January 1, 2011.  Mr. Mehrotra was appointed to the Companys Board of Directors effective July 21, 2010.  The Board also appointed Michael Marks, a member of the SanDisk Board since 2003, to the role of Chairman effective January 1, 2011.
SanDisk and Toshiba signed primary agreements towards forming their third 300 millimeter joint venture that will build and operate a new NAND wafer fab, Fab 5, in Yokkaichi, Japan.
SanDisk began shipping its SanDisk SD write once read many (WORM) card with 1 gigabyte of capacity.  The WORM card is ideal for archival purposes, with data storage of up to 100 years.
SanDisk introduced its next-generation multi-level cell NAND based solid-state drive, SanDisk SSD G4, and modular solid-state drive, SanDiskSSD P4, with capacities up to 256 gigabytes and 128 gigabytes, respectively.
CONFERENCE CALL
SanDisks second quarter 2010 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 P.M., Pacific Time, Thursday, July 22, 2010.  The conference call will be webcast and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at .  To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is 719-325-4819 and the dial-in password is 8237874.  A copy of this press release will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
http://www.sandisk.com/IR
 
SCHEDULED INTERVIEWS
SanDisk Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBCs Power Lunch, on Friday, July 23, 2010, at approximately 10:20 A.M., Pacific Time.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook, our expectations for fiscal year 2010 and our expectations regarding our business, including expected growth in flash memory demand in 2010 and beyond, our ability to obtain supply to meet that demand and our customer base, that are based on our current expectations and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others:
competitive pricing pressures, resulting in lower average selling prices and lower or negative product gross margins;
less than anticipated demand, including due to economic weakness in our markets and among consumers generally;
unpredictable or changing demand for our products, particularly for certain form factors or capacities;
excess captive memory output or capacity which could result in write-downs for excess inventory, lower of cost or market reserves, fixed costs associated with under-utilized capacity, or other consequences;
insufficient captive and non-captive memory supply to meet demand;
insufficient non-memory materials or capacity from our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet demand; or increases in cost of non-memory materials or capacity;
our products may not perform as expected; and
other risks detailed from time-to-time under the caption Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS REGARDING EXECUTIVE TRANSITION
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about the retirement of Mr. Harari, the promotion of Mr. Mehrotra, the appointment of Mr. Marks  and the expected performance of SanDisk, particularly in the quotes included above that are based on SanDisks current expectations and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate, including, among others:  that either Mr. Mehrotra or Mr. Marks is no longer with the Company or otherwise does not assume their new positions with SanDisk on the effective time of such appointment, that this leadership transition is not successful, or that SanDisk does not perform as expected and the other risks deta iled from time-to-time in SanDisks Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, under the caption Risk Factors and elsewhere in SanDisks most recent annual report on Form 10-K and SanDisks subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.  The parties do not intend to update the information contained in this release.
 
ABOUT SANDISK
SanDisk Corporation is the global leader in flash memory cards, from research, manufacturing and product design to consumer branding and retail distribution.  SanDisk's product portfolio includes flash memory cards for mobile phones, digital cameras and camcorders; digital audio/video players; USB flash drives for consumers and the enterprise; embedded memory for mobile devices; and solid state drives for computers.  SanDisk is a Silicon Valley-based S&P 500 company, with more than half its sales outside the United States.
SanDisk and the SanDisk logo and are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries.  SD is a trademark of SD-3C LLC.  Other brand names mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


