FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20101021160748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 21, 2010, SanDisk Corporation (the Registrant) issued a press release to report its financial results for its third quarter ended October 3, 2010.
The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.  In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and net income per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses.  These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of the Registrants current financial performance and its prospects for the future.  Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to b oth management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant.  For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for share-based compensation, the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets related to acquisitions of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006 and MusicGremlin, Inc. in June 2008, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Registrants cash-settled convertible notes, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provide consistency in its financial reporting.  These non-GAAP results are some of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods.  Further, management us es non-GAAP information that excludes certain non-cash charges, such as amortization of purchased intangible assets, share-based compensation, and non-cash economic interest expense associated with cash-settled convertible notes, as these non-GAAP charges do not reflect the cash operating results of the business or the ongoing results.  These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results.  These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing.  The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be furnished and therefore shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 SanDisk Corporation
601 McCarthy Boulevard
Milpitas, CA 95035-7932
Phone: 408-801-1000
Fax: 408-801-8657
 
Milpitas, CA, October 21, 2010 - SanDiskCorporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), the global leader in flash memory cards, today announced results for the third quarter ended October 3, 2010.  Total third quarter revenue of $1.23 billion increased 32% on a year-over-year basis and increased 5% on a sequential basis.  Net income, in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), was $322 million, or $1.34 per diluted share, compared to GAAP net income of $231 million, or $0.99 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2009 and GAAP net income of $258 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, which excludes the impact of share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, non-cash economic interest expense associated with the cash-settled convertible notes, and related tax adjustments and valuation allowance, third-quarter net income was $311 million, or $1.30 per diluted share, compared to net income of $176 million, or $0.75 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2009 and net income of $258 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010.  For reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP results, see accompanying financial tables and footnotes.
SanDisk delivered outstanding results for the third quarter, driven by continued strength in our OEM and retail businesses. Solid execution, stable pricing and substantial cost reductions led to record high operating and net income and our highest ever total gross margin of 52%.  For 2011, we are bullish about continuing growth in our diversified channels, including further substantial inroads for our embedded storage products in smartphones, tablet PCs and other mobile devices, said Eli Harari, Chairman and CEO of SanDisk.
 
THIRD QUARTER 2010 METRICS & HIGHLIGHTS
Total revenue was $1.23 billion, up 32% year-over-year and up 5% sequentially.
Product revenue was $1.14 billion, up 40% year-over-year and up 4% sequentially.
License and royalty revenue was $96 million, down 21% year-over-year and up 9% sequentially.
Total gross profit, product gross profit and operating income compared on a year-over-year and sequential basis are shown in the table below:
Cash flow from operations was $379 million and free cash flow was $416 million.
Total cash and equivalents, short and long-term marketable securities at the end of the third quarter were $5.1 billion compared to $2.6 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2009 and $3.7 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2010.
SanDisk completed a $1.0 billion senior unsecured convertible notes offering due 2017.  The notes will pay interest semi-annually at a rate of 1.5% per annum.
Average price per gigabyte sold declined 20% on a year-over-year basis and declined 5% sequentially.
 
OTHER RECENT KEY ANNOUNCEMENTS
SanDisk introduced the industrys first embedded solid state drive (SSD), the SanDisk integrated SSD (iSSD), a high-capacity storage solution for use in fast-growing mobile computing platforms such as tablet PCs and ultra-thin notebooks, in capacities ranging from 4 gigabytes to 64 gigabytes.
SanDisk launched a new sub-$100 media player, Sansa Fuze+, with a microSDHC card slot that is compatible with the SanDisk slotRadio pre-loaded music card or with any other microSD card containing music, videos and photos.
 
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
SanDisks third quarter 2010 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 P.M., Pacific Daylight Time, Thursday, October 21, 2010.  The conference call will be webcast and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisk's website at .  To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is 719-325-4827 and the dial-in password is 9488738.  A copy of this press release will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
http://www.sandisk.com/IR
 
 
SCHEDULED INTERVIEW
 
SanDisk Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Eli Harari, is scheduled to appear on CNBCs Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo, on Thursday, October 21, 2010, at approximately 1:20 P.M., Pacific Daylight Time.
 
 
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and outlook, and our expectations regarding our business, including expected growth in flash memory demand, including overall growth in our diversified sales channels and growth in the demand for embedded storage products in smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices, that are based on our current expectations and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others:
 
competitive pricing pressures, resulting in lower average selling prices and lower or negative product gross margins;
less than anticipated demand, including due to economic weakness in our markets and among consumers generally;
unpredictable or changing demand for our products, particularly for certain form factors or capacities;
excess captive memory output or capacity which could result in write-downs for excess inventory, lower of cost or market reserves, fixed costs associated with under-utilized capacity, or other consequences;
insufficient captive and non-captive memory supply to meet demand;
insufficient non-memory materials or capacity from our suppliers and contract manufacturers to meet demand; or increases in cost of non-memory materials or capacity;
our products may not perform as expected; and
other risks detailed from time-to-time under the caption Risk Factors and elsewhere in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports, including, but not limited to, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the second quarter of fiscal 2010.
 
ABOUT SANDISK
 
SanDisk Corporation is the global leader in flash memory cards, from research, manufacturing and product design to consumer branding and retail distribution.  SanDisks product portfolio includes flash memory cards for mobile phones, digital cameras and camcorders; digital audio/video players; USB flash drives for consumers and the enterprise; embedded memory for mobile devices; and solid state drives for computers.  SanDisk is a Silicon Valley-based S&P 500 company, with more than half its sales outside the United States.
SanDisk, the SanDisk logo and Sansa Fuze are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries.  SDHC is a trademark of SD-3C LLC.  Other brand names mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


