FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20110729162845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02                 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On July 28, 2011, SanDisk Corporation (the Company) appointed Donald Robertson, age 42, to the position of Principal Accounting Officer of the Company.  Mr. Robertson is a Vice President of the Company and has served as Corporate Controller since joining the Company in January .  From February 2004 until joining the Company, Mr. Robertson worked at Adaptec, Inc., as Director of Finance.  From 1992 until February 2004, Mr. Robertson worked at PricewaterhouseCoopers in San Jose, California.  Mr. Robertson holds a Master of Science, Accounting from San Jose State University and a Bachelor of Arts, Quantitative Economics and Decision Sciences from University of California, San Diego.  Mr. Robertson is a Certified Public Accountant.
2006
In connection with his appointment as Principal Accounting Officer, Mr. Robertson received a restricted stock unit award of 4,000 shares of Company common stock granted under the Companys Amended and Restated 2005 Incentive Plan.  The restricted stock unit award shall vest in four successive equal annual installments measured from the award date.
Ms. Judy Bruner, the Companys previous Principal Accounting Officer, will remain the Companys Principal Financial Officer and will continue in her role as Executive Vice President, Administration and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


