FILE:SNDK/SNDK-8K-20120719161028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 19, 2012
SanDisk Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
601 McCarthy Boulevard, Milpitas, California 95035
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (408) 801-1000
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURES
EXHIBIT INDEX
EXHIBIT 99.1
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 19, 2012, SanDisk Corporation (the Registrant) issued a press release to report its financial results for its second quarter ended July 1, 2012.
The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. In addition to the condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), the attached press release contains non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and net income per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of the Registrants current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, the Registrant believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors as these non-GAAP results exclude certain expenses, gains and losses that it believes are not indicative of its core operating results and because it is consistent with the financial models and estimates published by many analysts who follow the Registrant. For example, because the non-GAAP results exclude the expenses the Registrant recorded for share-based compensation, the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets related to acquisitions of Matrix Semiconductor, Inc. in January 2006, Pliant Technology, Inc. in May 2011, FlashSoft Corporation in February 2012 and Schooner Information Technology, Inc. in June 2012, non-cash economic interest expense associated with the Registrants convertible debt and related tax adjustments, the Registrant believes the inclusion of non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency in its financial reporting. These non-GAAP results are some of the primary indicators management uses for assessing performance, allocating resources and planning and forecasting future periods. Further, management uses non-GAAP information that excludes certain non-cash charges, such as amortization of purchased intangible assets, share-based compensation, non-cash economic interest expense associated with convertible debt and related tax adjustments, as these non-GAAP charges do not reflect the cash operating results of the business or the ongoing results. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. These non-GAAP measures may be different than the non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
  
The information contained herein and in the accompanying exhibit shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, unless expressly incorporated by specific reference to this or such filing. The information in this report, including the exhibit hereto, shall be deemed to be furnished and therefore shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT 99.1
    
    
SanDisk Corporation
601 McCarthy Boulevard
Milpitas, CA 95035-7932
Phone: 408-801-1000
Fax: 408-801-8657
SANDISK ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER 2012 FINANCIAL RESULTS
Milpitas, CA, July 19, 2012 - SanDisk Corporation (NASDAQ:SNDK), a global leader in flash memory storage solutions, announced today results for the second quarter ended July 1, 2012. Total second quarter revenue of $1.03 billion declined 25% on a year-over-year basis and declined 14% on a sequential basis.
On a GAAP
(1)
basis, second quarter net income was $13 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, compared to net income of $248 million, or $1.02 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and $114 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
On a non-GAAP
(2)
basis, second quarter net income was $51 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, compared to net income of $278 million, or $1.14 per diluted share, in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 and net income of $156 million, or $0.63 per diluted share, in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. For reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP results, see accompanying financial tables and footnotes.
We delivered second quarter results in line with our forecast, reflecting short-term weakness in our mobile OEM sales, strength in retail, especially in international markets, and growth in our enterprise and client SSD products, said Sanjay Mehrotra, president and chief executive officer of SanDisk. I am pleased to report that our SSD revenues achieved 10% of second quarter sales with growing adoption of our solutions by major OEMs. We also made good progress on our embedded product roadmap for mobile customers. We believe that strengthening industry fundamentals and our expanding portfolio of solutions will contribute to improving financial results in the second half of 2012.
 
SECOND QUARTER 2012 KEY FINANCIAL METRICS
CONFERENCE CALL
SanDisks second quarter of fiscal 2012 conference call is scheduled for 2:00 P.M., Pacific Time, Thursday, July 19, 2012. The conference call will be webcast and can be accessed live, and throughout the quarter, at SanDisks website at http://www.sandisk.com/IR. To participate in the call via telephone, the dial-in number is 647-438-1131 and the dial-in password is 1091224. A copy of this press release will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on a current report on Form 8-K and will be posted to our website prior to the conference call.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This news release contains certain forward-looking statements, including statements about our business prospects and our expectations regarding our business, our belief that our OEM sales will improve and our industry will strengthen in the second half of 2012, our belief that industry supply/demand fundamentals are improving, our expanded product portfolio, expected financial results, and pricing and demand trends that are based on our current expectations and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate and may significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks that may cause these forward-looking statements to be inaccurate include among others:
ABOUT SANDISK
SanDisk Corporation is a global leader in flash memory storage solutions, from research and development, product design and manufacturing to branding and distribution for OEM and retail channels. Since 1988, SanDisks innovations in flash memory and storage system technologies have provided customers with new and transformational digital experiences. SanDisks diverse product portfolio includes flash memory cards and embedded solutions used in smart phones, tablets, digital cameras, camcorders, digital media players and other consumer electronic devices, as well as USB flash drives and solid-state drives (SSD) for the computing and enterprise markets. SanDisks products are used by consumers and enterprise customers around the world.
SanDisk is a Silicon Valley-based S&P 500 and Fortune 500 company, with more than half its sales outside the United States. For more information, visit www.sandisk.com.
SanDisk and the SanDisk logo are trademarks of SanDisk Corporation, registered in the United States and other countries. Other brand names mentioned herein are for identification purposes only and may be the trademarks of their respective holder(s).
SanDisk Corporation
Reconciliation of Preliminary GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Results
 
(1)


