FILE:VNO/VNO-8K-20070927191107.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2.):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o 
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o 
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On September 27, 2007, the Board of Trustees of Vornado Realty Trust (the "Company") determined to increase the size of the Company's Board of Trustees to 11 members and to appoint Ms. Candace K. Beinecke to the vacancy with an initial term expiring in 2010.  The Board further determined that Ms. Beinecke is independent in accordance with the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Ms. Beinecke has been the Chairperson of the law firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP since 1999.  She is also a practicing partner in Hughes Hubbard's Corporate Department.  Ms. Beinecke also serves as Chairperson of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder Advisors LLC's First Eagle Funds, Inc., (public mutual funds); and as a member of the Boards of ALSTOM, (the French transport and power company); Rockefeller Financial Services, Inc. and Rockefeller & Co., Inc. She is a Director, Vice Chair and Executive Committee member of the Partnership for New York City, a director of the Fund for New York's Future, Inc., and a member of the Board of Advisors, Yale Law School Center for the Study of Corporate Law.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 27, 2007
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: September 27, 2007
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  September 27, 2007
Vornado Announces New Board Member
today that its Board of Trustees has increased the size of Vornado's Board of Trustees to 11 members and appointed Ms. Candace K. Beinecke, a new independent member, to the vacancy with an initial term expiring in 2010.
PARAMUS, NEW JERSEY,...Vornado Realty Trust (NYSE:VNO) announced
Ms. Beinecke has been the Chairperson of the law firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP since 1999.  She is also a practicing partner in Hughes Hubbard's Corporate Department.  Ms. Beinecke also serves as Chairperson of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder Advisors LLC's First Eagle Funds, Inc., (public mutual funds); and as a member of the Boards of ALSTOM, (the French transport and power company); Rockefeller Financial Services, Inc. and Rockefeller & Co., Inc. She is a Director, Vice Chair and Executive Committee member of the Partnership for New York City, a director of the Fund for New York's Future, Inc., and a member of the Board of Advisors, Yale Law School Center for the Study of Corporate Law.
Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated equity real estate investment trust.
Certain statements contained herein may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, risks associated with the timing of and costs associated with property improvements, financing commitments and general competitive factors.


