FILE:VNO/VNO-8K-20090514173946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 14, 2009
 
VORNADO REALTY TRUST
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
VORNADO REALTY L.P.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 894-7000
Former name or former address, if changed since last report: N/A
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers.
 
On May 14, 2009, Vornado Realty Trust ("Vornado") issued a press release announcing that, following election by the Board of Trustees of Vornado, Mr. Michael D. Fascitelli, Vornado's President, has assumed the additional role of Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Steven Roth, who, until May 14, 2009, served as Chief Executive Officer of Vornado, will continue as executive Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Biographical and other information regarding Mr. Roth and Mr. Fascitelli is available in Vornado's most recent proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 3, 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
99.1 Press Release, dated May 14, 2009 (filed).
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: May 14, 2009
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: May 14, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACT: JOSEPH MACNOW
210 Route 4 East
Paramus, NJ 07652
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  May 14, 2009
Vornado Realty Trust Elects Michael Fascitelli CEO; Steven Roth Remains Chairman
PARAMUS, NEW JERSEY -- Vornado Realty Trust (NYSE: VNO) announced today that it has executed its long-planned management succession strategy and that its Board of Trustees has elected Michael D. Fascitelli, 52, as Chief Executive Officer, succeeding Steven Roth, 67, who will remain Chairman. Messrs. Roth and Fascitelli have worked together as partners over the past twelve years  this close collaboration will continue in the future.
 
In 1997, Mr. Roth recruited Mr. Fascitelli from Goldman, Sachs & Co. to be Vornado's President and "Chief Growth Officer." Previously, Mr. Fascitelli was the partner in charge of Goldman Sachs' real estate practice. He is a member of the Class of 1978 of the University of Rhode Island where he received his B.S. in Industrial Engineering Summa Cum Laude. In 1982 he received his MBA with highest distinction from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration after which he joined McKinsey & Company, Inc., a management-consulting firm. He is a trustee of the Urban Land Institute and is Chairman of the Wharton Real Estate Center and Executive Committee. He serves on the Rockefeller University Board of Trustees, the Board of the New York University Child Study Centers and St. Bernard's Board of Trustees.
 
Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated equity real estate investment trust.
 
Certain statements contained herein may constitute "forward-looking statements". Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others, risks associated with the timing of and costs associated with property improvements, financing commitments, general competitive factors and the risk factors discussed in documents filed by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
####
 
 
 


