FILE:VNO/VNO-8K-20110610150202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
VORNADO REALTY L.P. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (212) 894-7000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2.):
 
 
 
Item 1.01.         Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On June 8, 2011, Vornado Realty L.P. (the Company), the operating partnership through which Vornado Realty Trust (Vornado) conducts its business, renewed one of its two unsecured revolving credit facilities and increased the commitments under such facility to $1.25 billion from $1.0 billion (the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility).  The 2011 Revolving Credit Facility matures in four years, has a oneyear extension option and bears interest at LIBOR plus 135 basis points, based on the Companys current credit rating. 
The Company plans to extend its second revolving credit facility of $1.595 billion (the 2007 Revolving Credit Facility) which matures in September 2012. 
The Companys total revolving credit facilities are now $2.845 billion, of which $100 million is currently outstanding.
The lead arrangers and book-runners for the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility are JP Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated.  JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. serves as Administrative Agent.  Bank of America, N.A. serves as Syndication Agent.  Citicorp North America, Inc.; Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas; Wells Fargo Bank, National Association; Barclays Bank plc; The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.; The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and UBS Securities LLC serve as Documentation Agents.
Under the terms of the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility, Equity Value may not be less than Three Billion Dollars ($3,000,000,000); Total Outstanding Indebtedness may not exceed sixty percent (60%) of Capitalization Value, which is based on a 6.5% capitalization rate; the ratio of Combined EBITDA to Fixed Charges, each measured as of the most recently ended calendar quarter, may not be less than 1.40 to 1.00; the ratio of Unencumbered Combined EBITDA to Unsecured Interest Expense, each measured as of the most recently ended calendar quarter, may not be less than 1.50 to 1.00; at any time, Unsecured Indebtedness may not exceed sixty percent (60%) of Capitalization Value of Unencumbered Assets; and the ratio of Secured Indebtedness to Capitalization Value, each measured as of the most recently ended calendar quarter, may not exceed fifty percent (50%). The 2011 Revolving Credit Facility also contains standard representations and warranties and other covenants. 
Concurrent with the execution of the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility, certain changes were made to the terms of the 2007 Revolving Credit Facility to conform it to the 2011 Revolving Credit Facility.
Certain statements contained herein constitute forward-looking statements as such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act  1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. They represent the companies intentions, plans, expectations and beliefs and are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. The companies future results, financial condition and business may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. You can find many of these statements by looking for words such as approximates, believes, expects, anticipates, estimates, intends, plans, would, may or other similar expressions.  Many of the factors that will determine the outcome of these and our other forward-looking statements are beyond tour ability to control or predict. For further discussion of factors that could materially affect the outcome of our forward-looking statements, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys and Vornados Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.  For these statements, the companies claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of they are made. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Neither the Company nor Vornado undertakes any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof.
of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.03.         Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
The disclosure contained in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference herein into this Item 2.03.
  
 
Item 9.01.
        
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 (d)       Exhibits.
99.1      Press Release, dated June 9, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: June 10, 2011
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: June 10, 2011
 
 
 
 
99.1     Press Release, dated June 9, 2011.
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
CONTACT:  JOSEPH MACNOW
                     (201) 587-1000
 
210 Route 4 East
Paramus, NJ  07652
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE  June 9, 2011
Vornado Renews and Increases Revolving Credit Facility
PARAMUS, NEW JERSEY.VORNADO REALTY TRUST (NYSE:VNO) announced today that Vornado Realty L.P., the operating partnership through which Vornado Realty Trust conducts its business, has renewed one of its two unsecured revolving credit facilities and increased it to $1.25 billion from $1 billion.  The renewed facility matures in four-years, has a one-year extension option and bears interest at LIBOR plus 135 basis points, based on Vornados current credit rating.
Vornado plans to extend its second revolving credit facility of $1.595 billion maturing in September 2012.  
Vornados total revolving credit facilities are now $2.845 billion, of which $100 million is outstanding.
The lead arrangers and bookrunners for the facility are JP Morgan Securities LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated.  JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. serves as Administrative Agent.  Bank of America, N.A. serves as Syndication Agent.  Citicorp North America, Inc.; Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas; Wells Fargo Bank, National Association; Barclays Bank plc; The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.; The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and UBS Securities LLC serve as Documentation Agents.
Vornado Realty Trust is a fully integrated equity real estate investment trust.
Certain statements contained herein may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.  Such factors include, among others, risks associated with the timing of and costs associated with property improvements, financing commitments and general competitive factors.
 


