FILE:VNO/VNO-8K-20120119105542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
 
 
 
VORNADO REALTY L.P. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: (212) 894-7000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2.):
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.       Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 13, 2012, the Board of Trustees of Vornado Realty Trust (the Company) determined to increase the size of the Companys Board of Trustees to 11 members and to appoint Mr. Daniel R. Tisch to the vacancy with an initial term expiring in 2014.  The Board has determined that Mr. Tisch is independent in accordance with the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Tisch is the managing member of TowerView LLC (an investment partnership) and previously served as a general partner of Mentor Partners, L.P. (an investment partnership) and as a managing director of Salomon Brothers, Inc.  Mr. Tisch also serves as a board member of Suffield Academy, New York University and Partnership for Childrens Rights.
 
Item 9.01.
      
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 (d)       Exhibits.
                        None.
1
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: January 19, 2012
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: January 19, 2012
 
2
 


