FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20041223160050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS
 
News Corporation is filing this current report to provide certain disclosure for the period ended September 30, 2004 (set forth in Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference). Except as otherwise noted, the disclosures relate to News Corporation's predecessor, The News Corporation Limited, an Australian company.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 23, 2004
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS CORPORATION
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1Basis of Presentation
 
On November 12, 2004, a new Delaware corporation named News Corporation became, through a wholly-owned subsidiary named News Australia Holdings Pty Ltd ("News Australia Holdings"), the parent of News Holdings Inc. (formerly known as The News Corporation Limited), an Australian corporation ("TNCL" or for periods prior to November 12, 2004, the "Company"). We refer to these transactions collectively as the "Reorganization."
 
In the Reorganization, all outstanding TNCL ordinary shares and preferred limited voting ordinary shares were cancelled and shares of Class B Common Stock and Class A Common Stock were issued in exchange on a one for two share basis. The financial statements have been presented as if the one for two share exchange took place on July 1, 2003.
 
News Corporation (the "Company") is a diversified entertainment and media company. The Company manages and reports its businesses in eight segments, which are: Filmed Entertainment, Television, Cable Network Programming, Direct Broadcast Satellite Television, Magazines and Inserts, Newspapers, Book Publishing and Other.
 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. In the opinion of management, all adjustments consisting only of normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these unaudited consolidated financial statements. Operating results for the interim period presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005.
 
These interim unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 24, 2004.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated condensed financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Because of the use of estimates inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2005 presentation.
 
 
Note 1 - Basis of Presentation (continued)
 
The Company follows the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," and in accordance with its provisions, applies the intrinsic value method set forth in Accounting Principles Board Opinion ("APB") No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."
 
The following table reflects the effect on net income and earnings per share as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions for stock-based employee compensation. These pro forma effects may not be representative of future amounts since the estimated fair value of stock options on the date of grant is amortized to expense over the vesting period and additional options may be granted in future years.
 
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," total comprehensive income for the Company consists of the following:
 
 
 
Note 2- Incorporation in the United States
 
On November 12, 2004, the Reorganization was accomplished under Australian law whereby the holders of TNCL's ordinary and preferred limited voting ordinary shares, including those ordinary shares and preferred limited voting ordinary shares represented by American Depositary Shares ("ADSs"), had their shares cancelled and received in exchange shares of Class B Common Stock and Class A Common Stock of News Corporation on a one for two share basis.
 
In connection with the Reorganization, the Company acquired from the Murdoch Interests the approximate 58% interest in QPL not already owned by the Company through the acquisition of the Cruden Group of companies. The Murdoch Interests are certain trusts, the beneficiaries of which include Mr. Rupert Murdoch, members of his family and certain charities. The principal assets of the Cruden Group were shares of the Company and a 58% interest in QPL. QPL owns a publishing business which includes two metropolitan and eight regional newspapers in Queensland, Australia, as well as shares of News Corporation. Reorganization costs incurred during the quarter ended September 30, 2004 amounted to $13 million.
 
A Special Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, advised by UBS, and the Murdoch Interests agreed to a valuation of approximately $2 billion for the entire QPL publishing business, less the net debt of QPL. The Murdoch Interests received Class B Common Stock in News Corporation in exchange for the value of their 58% pro rata ownership of the QPL publishing business, net of debt, based on the average closing price of the shares of the Company on the Australian Stock Exchange for the five trading days ending on July 15, 2004. In exchange for the TNCL shares owned directly through the Cruden Group and indirectly (through QPL) by the Cruden Group, the Murdoch Interests received shares of News Corporation in the same exchange ratio as all other holders of the TNCL shares in the Reorganization. The number of shares of Class A Common Stock that the Murdoch Interests received was reduced by the number of shares equal in value to the net debt and certain other net liabilities of the Cruden Group which were assumed by the Company in the transaction. Following the Reorganization, Mr. K. R. Murdoch and the Murdoch Interests own approximately 29.5% of the Class B Common Stock of News Corporation.
 
As a result of the Reorganization, News Corporation became the new parent company of TNCL. News Corporation has a primary listing on the New York Stock Exchange and secondary listings on the Australian Stock Exchange and in due course, expects to obtain a secondary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
 
 
Note 3- Investments
 
The Company's investments were comprised of the following at:
 
 
DIRECTV
 
Investments in equity affiliates primarily reflects the Company's investment in DIRECTV and includes the excess of fair value over the Company's proportionate share of DIRECTV's underlying net assets as of December 22, 2003, the date of acquisition, as adjusted to record such net assets at fair value, most notably the adjustment to the carrying value of DIRECTV's SPACEWAY assets, PanAmSat business and assets and its deferred subscriber acquisition costs. This excess is being preliminarily allocated to both finite-lived intangibles, which are being amortized, and to certain indefinite-lived intangibles and goodwill, which in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," are not being amortized. The allocation of the excess is not final and is subject to changes upon completion of final valuations of certain assets and liabilities. A future reduction in goodwill for additional value to be assigned to identifiable finite-lived intangible assets or tangible assets could reduce future equity earnings recognized by the Company resulting from additional amortization. For every $100 million reduction in goodwill for additional value to be assigned to identifiable finite-lived intangible assets or tangible assets, Equity earnings of affiliates would decrease by approximately $10 million per year representing amortization expense assuming an average useful life of 10 years.
 
 
Note 3- Investments (continued)
 
Summarized financial information for DIRECTV accounted for under the equity method is as follows:
 
 
The Company's share of DIRECTV's results has been adjusted to reflect the Company's preliminary allocation of the fair value of DIRECTV's assets and liabilities as of December 22, 2003 and, as required, excludes certain items that were recognized by DIRECTV as income and expense within its results. During the three months ended September 30, 2004, the Company adjusted its preliminary allocation of its proportionate share assigned to DIRECTV's SPACEWAY program based on the carrying value assigned by DIRECTV.
 
The Company's share of DIRECTV's losses for the three months ended September 30, 2004 was $100 million and includes the Company's share of DIRECTV's increased loss from its sale of PanAmSat resulting from a reduction in sales proceeds, the Company's portion of the SPACEWAY program impairment and $14 million from the amortization of certain finite-lived intangibles.
 
 
Note 4 -Inventories, net
 
Inventories, net consisted of the following at:
 
 
 
Note 5Borrowings
 
Eurobonds
 
During the three months ended September 30, 2004, the Company retired the remaining Eurobonds for $272 million.
 
New Millennium II
 
In May 2004, the Company ended the transfer term under the New Millennium II Agreement, the Company's film financing vehicle, and will no longer draw any borrowings under the facility. In accordance with the terms of the termination, the Company will repay $636 million of the facility in fiscal 2005 and $23 million in fiscal 2006. During the three months ended September 30, 2004, the Company repaid $375 million of the facility. At September 30 and June 30, 2004, $284 million and $659 million, respectively, remained outstanding and included in Borrowings on the consolidated balance sheets. Subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company retired $131 million of the amount due in fiscal 2005.
 
Note 6Other Acquisitions and Disposals
 
Fiscal 2005 Transactions
 
In August 2004, STAR entered into an agreement to acquire up to 26% in Balaji Telefilms Limited, the largest television content production company in India, whose shares are listed for trading on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai and the National Stock Exchange of India, pending regulatory approval from the government of India.
 
Fiscal 2004 Transactions
 
In December 2003, NDS Group plc ("NDS"), a subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% of the MediaHighway middleware business from a subsidiary of Thomson SA and licensed certain related patents from Thomson SA for a total consideration of $73 million (60 million) in cash. Subsequent to this acquisition, the Company concluded that certain intangible assets recognized on acquisition were not supported by projections of the incremental future cash flows attributable to the acquired business. Accordingly, during the second quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company recorded an impairment charge against these intangibles of $11.3 million reflected in Operating expenses within Operating income.
 
In December 2003, the Company sold its 50% direct ownership interests in SportsChannel Chicago Associates ("SportsChannel Chicago") and SportsChannel Pacific Associates ("SportsChannel Bay Area") (collectively the "SportsChannels") to subsidiaries of Regional Programming Partners ("RPP") for consideration of $150 million. This consideration was paid wholly in the form of two three-year promissory notes issued by the subsidiaries of RPP, which own only the acquired interests in the SportsChannels, in an aggregate amount of $150 million and bearing interest at prime plus 1% per annum. The notes are secured by a pledge of 100% of the interests in SportsChannel Bay Area. Upon the close of this sale, the SportsChannels are held 100% by RPP and indirectly 60% by Rainbow Media Sports Holdings, Inc. and 40% by the Company. The Company recognized a net gain on the sale of the SportsChannels of $9 million, which was reflected in Other, net in the unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2003.
 
In February 2004, the Company sold the Los Angeles Dodgers ("Dodgers"), together with Dodger Stadium and the team's training facilities in Vero Beach, Florida and the Dominican Republic, to entities owned by Frank McCourt (the "McCourt Entities"). The gross consideration for the sale of the Dodgers franchise and real estate assets was $421 million, subject to further adjustment. The consideration at closing was comprised of (i) $225 million in cash, (ii) a $125 million two-year note secured by non-team real estate, (iii) a $40 million four-year note secured by bank letters of credit and (iv) a $31 million three-year note that is convertible, at the Company's option, into preferred equity in the McCourt Entities if unpaid at maturity. The Company has agreed to remit $50 million during the first two years following the closing of the transaction to reimburse the McCourt Entities for certain pre-existing commitments. Pending the final determination of contractual adjustments, the sale has resulted in an estimated pre-tax loss of $19 million, which was recorded in Other, net in the Company's statements of operations for the year ended June 30, 2004.
 
 
Note 7- Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits
 
The Company sponsors non-contributory pension plans and retiree health and life insurance benefit plans covering specific groups of employees. The benefits for the non-contributory pension plans are based primarily on a formula factoring both an employee's years of service and pay near retirement. Participant employees are vested in the plans after five years of service. The Company's policy for all pension plans is to fund amounts, at a minimum, in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. During the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, the Company made discretionary contributions of $37 million and $39 million, respectively, to its pension plans. Plan assets consist principally of common stocks, marketable bonds and government securities. The retiree health and life insurance benefit plans offer medical and/or life insurance to certain full-time employees and eligible dependents that retire after fulfilling age and service requirements.
 
The components of net periodic benefit costs were as follows:
 
 
Other Postretirement Benefits Amendments
 
The fiscal 2005 postretirement net periodic costs reflect plan amendments implemented during the second quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the Medicare Act") was signed into law. The Medicare Act introduced a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D) and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retirement health care plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. In accordance with FASB Staff Position 106-1, the Company elected to defer recognizing the effects of the Medicare Act on the accounting for its retirement health care plans in fiscal 2004. In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 106-2, providing final guidance on accounting for the Medicare Act. FASB Staff Position 106-2 was implemented by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The adoption of FASB Staff Position 106-2 did not have a material impact on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company in fiscal 2005, but reduced the Company's Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation ("APBO") by approximately $5 million. The amortization of the $5 million reduction in APBO will reduce our future net postretirement benefit cost.
 
 
Note 8  Segment Information
 
The Company is a diversified entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in eight segments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's operating segments have been determined in accordance with the Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on operating activities. The Company evaluates performance based upon several factors, of which the primary financial measure is segment operating income (loss).
 
 
Note 8 Segment Information (continued)
 
 
Interest expense, net, Equity earnings of affiliates, net, Other, net Minority interest in subsidiaries, net, of tax and Income tax expense are not allocated to segments, as they are not under the control of segment management.
 
Intersegment revenues generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment of approximately $176 million and $154 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment. Intersegment operating profits generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment of approximately $19 million and $21 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment.
 
 
Note 8  Segment Information (continued)
 
 
 
Note 9  Other, net
 
Other, net consisted of the following:
 
 
Note 10Guarantees
 
In August 2004, the Company guaranteed the obligations of Sky Brasil, an equity affiliate of the Company, under a $210 million three-year credit agreement with JP Morgan Chase Bank and Citibank NA. Upon the closing of the Latin American direct-to-home ("DTH") reorganization transactions, the Company will be released from this guarantee (See Note 13  Subsequent Events).
 
The Company has guaranteed various transponder leases for certain associated companies operating in Latin America. The aggregate of these guarantees at September 30, 2004 is approximately $308 million and the final guarantee expires in 2019. As part of the Latin American DTH reorganization transactions, the Company will guarantee an additional $175 million of transponder leases for certain associated companies. Upon the closing of the Latin American DTH reorganization transactions, the Company will be released from the transponder lease guarantees. (See Note 13  Subsequent Events).
 
The Company has guaranteed a bank loan facility of $50 million for Star Channel Japan pro rata with the Company's ownership interest (18%). The facility covers a term loan of $26 million (2.8 billion) which matures in September 2005, and an agreement for overdraft of $23 million (2.5 billion). The Company would be liable under this guarantee in the event of default by Star Channel Japan.
 
 
Note 11Contingencies
 
NDS
 
On June 6, 2003, Echostar Communications Corporation, Echostar Satellite Corporation, Echostar Technologies Corporation and Nagrastar L.L.C. (collectively, "Echostar") filed an action against NDS in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Echostar filed an amended complaint on October 8, 2003, which purported to allege claims for violation of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act ("DMCA"), the Communications Act of 1934 ("CA"), the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, California's Unfair Competition statute and the federal RICO statute. The complaint also purported to allege claims for civil conspiracy, misappropriation of trade secrets and interference with prospective business advantage. The complaint sought injunctive relief, compensatory and exemplary damages and restitution. On December 22, 2003, all of the claims were dismissed by the court, except for the DMCA, CA and unfair competition claims, and the Court limited these claims to acts allegedly occurring within three years of the filing of the complaint. Echostar filed a second amended complaint. NDS filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint on March 31, 2004. The motion was scheduled to be heard by the Court on July 23, 2004. On July 21, 2004, the Court issued an order vacating the July 23, 2004 hearing date and ordering, among other things, Echostar to file a third amended complaint within 10 days correcting various deficiencies in the second amended complaint noted by the Court. Echostar filed its third amended complaint on August 4, 2004. On August 6, 2004, the Court ruled that NDS was free to file motion to dismiss the third amendment complaint, which NDS did on September 20, 2004. The hearing is set for January 3, 2005.
 
On July 25, 2003, Sogecable, S.A. and its subsidiary Canalsatellite Digital, S.L., Spanish satellite broadcasters and customers of Canal+ Technologies SA (together, "Sogecable"), filed an action against NDS in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Sogecable filed an amended complaint on October 9, 2003, which purported to allege claims for violation of the DMCA and the federal RICO statute. The amended complaint also purported to allege claims for interference with contract and prospective business advantage. The complaint sought injunctive relief, compensatory and exemplary damages and restitution. On December 22, 2003, all of the claims were dismissed by the court. Sogecable filed a second amended complaint. NDS filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint on March 31, 2004. On July 23, 2004, the Court heard oral argument on the motion and advised that a formal ruling should be issued by early August. On August 4 2004, the court issued an order dismissing the second amended complaint in its entirety. Sogecable had until October 4, 2004 to file a third amended complaint. On October 1, 2004, Sogecable notified the Court that it would not be filing a third amended complaint, but would appeal the Court's entry of final judgement dismissing the suit to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
 
DIRECTV
 
TNCL was named as a defendant in a Revised Amended Consolidated Complaint filed on May 7, 2004 in a lawsuit captioned "In re General Motors (Hughes) Shareholders Litigation," filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, Consolidated Civil Action No. 20269-NC. The lawsuit relates to TNCL's acquisition of stock in Hughes Electronics Corporation on December 22, 2003 which was subsequently transferred to the FEG. The complaint alleges that TNCL aided and abetted an alleged breach of fiduciary duty by the Board of Directors of GM allegedly owed to a class of certain GM shareholders. The plaintiffs allegedly seek "appropriate equitable reliefincluding rescissory remedies to the extent feasible ." The Company believes that the lawsuit is without merit and intends to vigorously defend against claims brought against the TNCL in the lawsuit. The Company also believes it is entitled to indemnification by GM under the agreements related to the transaction. On August 30, 2004, TNCL filed a brief in support of its motion to dismiss the complaint. On October 18, 2004, the plaintiffs filed their opposition to the motion. The Company filed its reply on November 17, 2004. The oral argument is set for March 7, 2005.
 
Other
 
The Company experiences routine litigation in the normal course of its business. The Company believes that none of its pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
 
 
Note 12Earnings Per Share
 
Earnings per share ("EPS") is computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Net income (loss) is apportioned to both Class A shareholders and Class B shareholders on the ratio of 1.2 to 1, respectively, in accordance with the rights of the shareholders as described in the Company's Certificate of Incorporation. In order to give effect to this apportionment when determining EPS, the weighted average Class A share is increased by 20% (the "Adjusted Class") and is then compared to the sum of the weighted average Class B shares and the weighted average Adjusted Class. The resulting percentage is then applied to the Net income (loss) to determine the apportionment for the Class A shareholders with the balance attributable to the Class B shareholders.
 
EPS has been presented in the two-class presentation, as the Class B shares participate in dividends with the Class A shares.
 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share under SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share" (in millions except per share amounts and %):
 
 
 
 
Note 12Earnings Per Share (continued)
 
 
 
The Company declared a dividend of $0.06 per share for Class A common shares and $0.02 per share for Class B common shares on September 16, 2004, which was paid on November 2, 2004 to shareholders of record on September 16, 2004.
 
 
Note 13  Subsequent Events
 
Subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company purchased Telecom Italia's 20% interest in SKY Italia, increasing the Company's ownership interest in SKY Italia to 100%, for aggregate cash consideration of $108 million (88 million) before fees.
 
In October 2004, the Company and DIRECTV announced a series of transactions that will result in the reorganization of the companies' DTH satellite television platforms in Latin America. Pursuant to these transactions, DIRECTV acquired the Company's interests in its Latin America satellite television platforms except for its interests in the Sky Mexico and Sky Brasil platforms, the completion of which is subject to regulatory approval. As a result of these transactions, the Company's transponder lease guarantee increased by $175 million. Upon the closing of the Latin American DTH reorganization transactions, the Company will be released from the transponder lease guarantees. (See Note 10  Guarantees)
 
In October 2004, the Company announced its intentions to invest in new printing plants in the United Kingdom and Australia to take advantage of technological and market changes. The Company intends to invest approximately $1 billion in the United Kingdom printing plants for , the , , and the TSL Education supplements and $500 million for the Australian printing plants. Depreciation expense on plant and equipment that will be replaced will be accelerated over the next four to five years.
The Sun
News of the World
The Times
The Sunday Times
 
In November 2004, the Company redeemed all of the outstanding adjustable rate cumulative perpetual preference shares and the guaranteed 8
 5
/
8
% perpetual preference shares for $345 million at par.
 
In November 2004, the Company entered into a six-year follow-on contract with the National Football League, increasing the Company's commitments with respect to sports programming rights by approximately $4.3 billion.
 
In November 2004, the Company retired all of the debt assumed in the Reorganization in the amount of $661 million.
 
In November 2004, the Company entered into an agreement with the Bowl Championship Series through fiscal 2010, increasing the Company's commitments with respect to sports programming rights by approximately $330 million.
 
In November 2004, the Company issued approximately $750 million in Senior Notes due 2014 at 5.30% and $1,000 million in Senior Notes due 2034 at 6.20%.
 
In December 2004, the Company guaranteed $45 million of the obligations of Sky Mexico, an equity affiliate of the Company, under a credit agreement. Upon the closing of the Latin American DTH reorganization transactions, the Company will be released from this guarantee.
 
 
 
Note 14  Supplemental Guarantor Information
 
On June 27, 2003, News America Incorporated ("NAI"), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into a $1.75 billion Five Year Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, JP Morgan Chase Bank, as syndication agent, and the lenders named therein. The Company, FEG Holdings, Inc., Fox Entertainment Group, Inc., News America Marketing FSI, Inc., and News Publishing Australia Limited are guarantors (the "Guarantors") under the Credit Agreement.
 
The Credit Agreement provides a $1.75 billion revolving credit facility with a sub-limit of $600 million available for the issuance of letters of credit, and expires on June 30, 2008. Borrowings are in US dollars only, while letters of credit are issuable in US dollars or Euros. The significant terms of the agreement include the requirement that the Company maintain specific gearing and interest coverage ratios and limitations on secured indebtedness. The Company pays a facility fee of 0.20% regardless of facility usage. The Company pays interest for borrowings and letters of credit at LIBOR plus 0.675%. The Company pays an additional fee of 0.125% if borrowings under the facility exceed 25% of the committed facility. The interest and fees are based on the Company's current debt rating.
 
The Guarantors presently guarantee the senior public indebtedness of News Corporation's indirect wholly owned subsidiary, NAI. Supplemental condensed consolidating financial information of the Guarantors. This supplemental financial information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein.
 
In accordance with SEC Rules and Regulations, in the "Guarantor Wholly Owned Subsidiaries" column, the Company uses the equity method to account for the results of all of the non-guarantor subsidiaries, representing substantially all of the Company's consolidated results of operations, excluding certain intercompany eliminations.
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
Note 14Supplemental Guarantor Information (Continued)
 
 
 
 
Note 14Supplement Guarantor Information (continued)
 
Notes to Supplemental Guarantor Information
 
(1) Guarantors consist of the Company and the following subsidiaries:
 
 
(2) In November 1998, Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. ("FEG"), a subsidiary of the Company, issued 124.8 million shares of its Class A common stock in an initial public offering. The shares issued represented an equity interest of approximately 15%. As a result of this transaction, FEG has been classified in the "Guarantor Non-Wholly Owned Subsidiary" column and FEG's subsidiaries have been included in the "Non-Guarantor Non-Wholly Owned Subsidiaries" column. In addition, News Corporation has agreed to indemnify FEG from and against any liabilities it may incur pursuant to its guarantees.
 
(3) Investments in the Company's subsidiaries, for purposes of the supplemental consolidating presentation, are accounted for by their parent companies under the equity method of accounting whereby earnings of subsidiaries are reflected in the parent company's investment account and earnings.
 
(4) The guarantees of NAI's senior public indebtedness constitute senior indebtedness of each of the guarantors thereto, including the Company, and rank pari passu with all present and future senior indebtedness of such guarantors. Because the factual basis underlying the obligations created pursuant to the various facilities and other obligations constituting senior indebtedness of the Company and the guarantors of NAI's senior public indebtedness, including the Company differ, it is not possible to predict how a court in bankruptcy would accord priorities among the obligations of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
 
Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. (the "Company") is principally engaged in the development, production and worldwide distribution of feature films and television programs, television broadcasting and cable network programming. The Company is a majority-owned subsidiary of The News Corporation Limited ("News Corporation"), which, as of September 30, 2004, held equity and voting interests in the Company of 82% and 97%, respectively.
 
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. In the opinion of management, all adjustments consisting only of normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these unaudited consolidated financial statements. Operating results for the interim period presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005.
 
These interim unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Because of the use of estimates inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2005 presentation.
 
The Company follows the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," and in accordance with its provisions, applies the intrinsic value method set forth in Accounting Principles Board Opinion ("APB") No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."
 
The following table reflects the effect on net income and earnings per share as if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions for stock-based employee compensation. These pro forma effects may not be representative of future amounts since the estimated fair value of stock options on the date of grant is amortized to expense over the vesting period and additional options may be granted in future years.
 
 
 
Note 2  Comprehensive Income
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," total comprehensive income for the Company consists of the following:
 
 
Note 3  Filmed Entertainment and Television Programming Costs, net
 
Filmed entertainment and television programming costs, net consisted of the following as of:
 
 
 
Note 4  Borrowings
 
In May 2004, the Company ended the transfer term under the New Millennium II Agreement, the Company's film financing vehicle, and will no longer draw any borrowings under the facility. In accordance with the terms of the termination, the Company will repay $636 million of the facility in fiscal 2005 and $23 million in fiscal 2006. During the three months ended September 30, 2004, the Company repaid $375 million of the facility. At September 30, 2004 and June 30, 2004, $284 million and $659 million, respectively, remained outstanding and included in Borrowings on the consolidated balance sheets and the corresponding interest expense was included in Interest expense, net in the unaudited consolidated statements of operations. Subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company repaid principal of $131 million of the facility.
 
Note 5  DIRECTV Transaction
 
On December 22, 2003, the Company acquired a 34% interest in Hughes Electronics Corporation ("Hughes") for total consideration of approximately $6.8 billion from News Corporation. News Corporation transferred its entire 34% interest in Hughes to the Company in exchange for two promissory notes totaling $4.5 billion and approximately 74.5 million shares of the Company's Class A common stock valued at $2.3 billion (the "Exchange"). One of the promissory notes the Company issued to News Corporation is in the amount of $2 billion, bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1% per annum, and matures on June 30, 2009. The other promissory note the Company issued to News Corporation is in the amount of $2.5 billion, bears interest at 8% per annum, and has a maturity date of June 30, 2009, which can be extended at the Company's option for not more than two successive one-year periods. The issuance of approximately 74.5 million shares of Class A common stock to News Corporation increased its equity interest in the Company from approximately 80.6% to approximately 82.0% while its voting power remained at approximately 97.0%. For financial reporting purposes, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force No. ("EITF") 90-5, "Exchanges of Ownership Interests between Entities Under Common Control," the Company recognized the Exchange based upon the acquired basis of News Corporation and issued equity to News Corporation at that value. The Company is accounting for its interest in Hughes in accordance with APB No. 18, "The Equity Method of Accounting for Investments in Common Stock."
 
Subsequent to the above transaction, Hughes changed its corporate name to The DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DIRECTV").
 
Investments in equity affiliates primarily reflects the Company's investment in DIRECTV and includes the excess of fair value over the Company's proportionate share of DIRECTV's underlying net assets at December 22, 2003 as adjusted to record such net assets at fair value, most notably the adjustment to the carrying value of DIRECTV's PanAmSat business and assets and its deferred subscriber acquisition costs. This excess is being preliminarily allocated to both finite-lived intangibles, which are being amortized, and to certain indefinite-lived intangibles and goodwill, which in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," are not being amortized. The allocation of the excess is not final and is subject to changes upon completion of final valuations of certain assets and liabilities. A future reduction in goodwill for additional value to be assigned to identifiable finite-lived intangible assets or tangible assets could reduce future equity earnings recognized by the Company resulting from additional amortization. For every $100 million reduction in goodwill for additional value to be assigned to identifiable finite-lived intangible assets or tangible assets, Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates, net would decrease by approximately $10 million per year representing amortization expense assuming an average useful life of 10 years.
 
Summarized financial information for DIRECTV, determined in accordance with Regulation S-X, accounted for under the equity method is as follows:
 
 
 
Note 5  DIRECTV Transaction - continued
 
The Company's share of DIRECTV's results has been adjusted to reflect the Company's preliminary allocation of the fair value of DIRECTV's assets and liabilities as of December 22, 2003 and, as required, excludes certain items that were recognized by DIRECTV as income and expense within its results. During the three months ended September 30, 2004, the Company adjusted its preliminary allocation of its proportional value assigned to DIRECTV's SPACEWAY program based on the carrying value assigned by DIRECTV.
 
The Company's share of DIRECTV's losses for the three months ended September 30, 2004 was $99 million, and includes the Company's share of DIRECTV's increased loss from its sale of PanAmSat resulting from a reduction in the sales proceeds, the Company's portion of the SPACEWAY program impairment and $14 million from the amortization of certain finite-lived intangibles.
 
Note 6  Other Acquisitions and Disposals
 
In December 2003, the Company sold its 50% direct ownership interests in SportsChannel Chicago Associates ("SportsChannel Chicago") and SportsChannel Pacific Associates ("SportsChannel Bay Area") (collectively the "SportsChannels") to subsidiaries of Regional Programming Partners ("RPP") for consideration of $150 million. This consideration was paid in the form of two three-year promissory notes issued by the subsidiaries of RPP, which own only the acquired interests in the SportsChannels, in an aggregate principal amount of $150 million and bearing interest at prime plus 1% per annum. The notes are secured by a pledge of 100% of the interests in SportsChannel Bay Area. Upon the close of this sale, the SportsChannels are held 100% by RPP and indirectly 60% by Rainbow Media Sports Holdings, Inc. and 40% by the Company. The Company recognized a net gain on the sale of the SportsChannels of $9 million, which was reflected in Other, net in the unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2003.
 
In December 2003, the Company acquired News Broadcasting Japan, a cable and satellite channel in Japan, from News Corporation for net consideration of approximately $38 million based upon an independent valuation. The Company acquired this entity to expand its international cable channel ownership. At December 31, 2003, the net purchase price of $38 million was included in Due to affiliates of News Corporation and the Company recorded the net assets acquired at News Corporation's historical cost of $8 million. The excess $30 million of purchase price was recorded as a reduction to Retained earnings in accordance with EITF 90-5.
 
In February 2004, the Company sold the Los Angeles Dodgers ("Dodgers"), together with Dodger Stadium and the team's training facilities in Vero Beach, Florida and the Dominican Republic, to entities owned by Frank McCourt (the "McCourt Entities"). The gross consideration for the sale of the Dodgers franchise and real estate assets was $421 million, subject to further adjustment. The consideration at closing was comprised of (i) $225 million in cash, (ii) a $125 million two-year note secured by non-team real estate, (iii) a $40 million four-year note secured by bank letters of credit and (iv) a $31 million three-year note that is convertible, at the Company's option, into preferred equity in the McCourt Entities if unpaid at maturity. The Company has agreed to remit $50 million during the first two years following the closing of the transaction to reimburse the McCourt Entities for certain pre-existing commitments. Pending the final determination of contractual adjustments, the sale resulted in an estimated loss of $19 million, which was recorded in Other, net in the unaudited consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2004.
 
In May 2004, the Company sold its 40% interest in the Staples Arena for aggregate consideration of $128 million. The Company recorded a loss on the sale of the interest in the Staples Arena of approximately $7 million in Other, net for the year ended June 30, 2004. In connection with the sale of this interest, the Company was released from several guarantees in the aggregate amount of $22.6 million outstanding at the time of the sale.
 
 
Note 7  Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits
 
The Company sponsors non-contributory pension plans and retiree health and life insurance benefit plans covering specific groups of employees. The benefits payable for the non-contributory pension plans are based primarily on a formula factoring both an employee's years of service and pay near retirement. Participant employees are vested in the plans after five years of service. The Company's policy for all pension plans is to fund amounts, at a minimum, in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. During the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, the Company made discretionary contributions of $24 million and $25 million, respectively, to its pension plans. Plan assets consist principally of common stocks, marketable bonds and government securities. The retiree health and life insurance benefit plans offer medical and/or life insurance to certain full-time employees and eligible dependents that retire after fulfilling age and service requirements.
 
The components of net periodic benefit costs were as follows:
 
 
Other Postretirement Benefits Amendments
 
The fiscal 2005 postretirement net periodic costs reflects plan amendments implemented during the second quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the Medicare Act") was signed into law. The Medicare Act introduced a prescription drug benefit under Medicare (Medicare Part D) and a federal subsidy to sponsors of retirement health care plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Staff Position 106-1, the Company elected to defer recognizing the effects of the Medicare Act on the accounting for its retirement health care plans in fiscal 2004. In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 106-2, providing final guidance on accounting for the Medicare Act. FASB Staff Position 106-2 was implemented by the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. The adoption of FASB Staff Position 106-2 did not have a material impact on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company in fiscal 2005, but reduced the Company's Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation ("APBO") by approximately $5 million. The amortization of the $5 million reduction in APBO will reduce our future net postretirement benefit cost.
 
 
Note 8  Segment Information
 
The Company manages and reports its activities in four business segments:
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's reportable operating segments have been determined in accordance with the Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on operating activities. The Company evaluates performance based upon several factors, of which the primary financial measures are segment Operating income and Operating income before depreciation and amortization.
 
 
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income (loss) plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense includes the depreciation of property and equipment, as well as amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. Amortization of cable distribution investments represents a reduction against revenues over the term of a carriage arrangement and as such it is excluded from Operating income before depreciation and amortization. Operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure and it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income (loss), net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements and the items excluded from Operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance.
 
Management believes that Operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data, although historical results, including Operating income before depreciation and amortization, may not be indicative of future results as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors including customer tastes and preferences.
 
 
Note 8  Segment Information - continued
 
 
Interest expense, net, Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates, net, Other, net, Provision for income tax expense on a stand-alone basis and Minority interest in subsidiaries are not allocated to segments, as they are not under the control of segment management.
 
 
 
Note 8  Segment Information - continued
 
 
Intersegment revenues, generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment, of approximately $168 million and $152 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment. Intersegment operating profits, generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment, of approximately $16 million and $20 million for the three months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment.
 
 
 
Note 9  Guarantees
 
The Company, News Corporation and certain of News Corporation's other subsidiaries are guarantors of various debt obligations of News Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries. The principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under such debt instruments as of September 30, and June 30, 2004 was approximately $9 billion and $10 billion, respectively. The debt instruments limit the ability of guarantors, including the Company, to subject their properties to liens, and certain of the debt instruments impose limitations on the ability of News Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, including the Company, to incur indebtedness in certain circumstances. Such debt instruments mature at various times between 2005 and 2096, with a weighted average maturity of 20 years.
 
In August 2004, the Company, along with News Corporation and certain of News Corporation's other subsidiaries, issued a guarantee for the obligations of Sky Brasil, an equity affiliate of News Corporation, under a $210 million three-year credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citibank NA. The Company will be released from this guarantee upon the transfer of News Corporation's interest in Sky Brasil to DIRECTV, as discussed in Note 11  Subsequent events. Given the strong financial position of the other guarantors, the Company believes it is highly unlikely it will be required to perform any of the obligations under the guarantee.
 
In the case of any event of default under such debt obligations, the Company will be directly liable to the creditors or debtholders. News Corporation has agreed to indemnify the Company from and against any obligations it may incur by reason of its guarantees of such debt obligations. As of September 30, 2004, News Corporation was in compliance with all of its debt covenants and had satisfied all financial ratios and tests and expects to remain in compliance and satisfy all such ratios and tests.
 
Note 10 - Other, net
 
For the three months ended September 30, 2003, Other, net consisted of a gain of $26 million related to the settlement of the Company's insurance claim primarily for its broadcast tower at the World Trade Center in New York, New York.
 
Note 11  Subsequent Events
 
In October 2004, News Corporation and DIRECTV announced a series of transactions that will result in the reorganization of the companies' direct-to-home satellite television platforms in Latin America. Pursuant to these transactions, DIRECTV will acquire News Corporation's interests in its Latin America satellite television platforms, including Sky Brasil, and assume all of its obligations thereof, including those under the credit agreement guaranteed by the Company. The completion of certain of these transactions is subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions.
 


