FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20050810162122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On August 10, 2005, News Corporation released its financial results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. A copy of News Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 10, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
FULL YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
FULL YEAR STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported fourth quarter consolidated revenues of $6.1 billion, a 12% increase over the $5.5 billion in the prior year, and full year revenues of $23.9 billion, an increase of 15% over the $20.8 billion in fiscal 2004.
NEW YORK, NY, August 10, 2005 
 
Consolidated operating income for the fourth quarter of $955 million was up 42% over the $674 million a year ago. For the full year, operating income was $3.6 billion, an increase of 22% over the $2.9 billion reported in fiscal 2004. The operating income growth during the fourth quarter and full year was driven by double-digit percentage increases at the Filmed Entertainment, Cable Network Programming, Magazines and Inserts and Newspaper segments, as well as by significant improvement at SKY Italia.
 
Net income for the fourth quarter was $717 million, ($0.22 diluted earnings per share on a combined basis
1
), an increase of $288 million from the $429 million ($0.15 diluted earnings per share on a combined basis
1
) reported in the fourth quarter a year ago. For the full year net income was $2.1 billion, ($0.69 diluted earnings per share on a combined basis
1
), an increase of $595 million from the $1.5 billion ($0.54 diluted earnings per share on a combined basis
1
) reported in fiscal 2004. Fourth quarter and full year increases were primarily driven by higher consolidated operating income and an improvement in equity earnings of affiliates, while also reflecting the inclusion of an unrealized gain on the change in fair value of certain outstanding exchangeable debt securities included in Other expense.
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
 
"We are extremely pleased with the continued growth we achieved during fiscal 2005our third consecutive year of record profits. What is pleasing about this past year is not just that we once again delivered double-digit revenue and operating income growth across nearly all of our businesses but perhaps more significantly many of our developing businesses turned profitable.
 
"SKY Italia delivered its first profitable quarter with the addition of 650,000 subscribers over the past 12 months. STAR received approval to launch a DTH service in India and doubled its earnings contributions. DIRECTV grew its subscriber base by 1.6 million and aggressively expanded its product offerings with the roll out of additional local channels and enhanced high definition and digital video recorder capabilities. And BSkyB announced a new pricing and package structure while adding more than 400,000 subscribers and generating substantial profit growth.
 
"Over the past year we also completed our reincorporation to the United States, as well as obtained full ownership of several key assets, including Queensland Press, the Fox Entertainment Group, SKY Italia and several regional sports networks. And we finished the year in our strongest financial position ever with over $6 billion in cash facilitating our $3 billion dollar stock buyback program and enabling us to make strategic investments, especially in new media. So while we generated record financial results this past year, I believe we have made the right strategic and operational moves to secure our momentum heading into fiscal 2006."
 
 
 
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
 
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
 
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported fourth quarter operating income of $109 million, up $14 million from the $95 million reported in the same period a year ago, and record full year operating income of $1.1 billion, up 17% from the $905 million reported in fiscal 2004. Current quarter and full year results primarily reflect solid worldwide theatrical and pay-TV revenues and strong contributions from film and television home entertainment releases.
 
Fourth quarter film results were largely driven by the home entertainment performances of , and as well as contributions from various catalog titles including . Additionally, the worldwide theatrical distribution of and as well as the pay-TV availability of and contributed to the strong quarterly results. The current quarter also included the initial results and related releasing costs for which has grossed over $200 million worldwide since its May release, as well as the releasing costs for which premiered after the quarter and has grossed over $250 million in worldwide box office. The fourth quarter a year ago included the domestic home entertainment performance of and the pay-TV availability of
Alien vs. Predator
Sideways
Napoleon Dynamite,
Ice Age
Star Wars Episode 3: Revenge of the Sith
Mr. and Mrs. Smith,
Day After Tomorrow
Garfield
Kingdom of Heaven,
Fantastic Four
Cheaper by the Dozen
X-Men 2.
 
For the full year, record film results were primarily driven by the worldwide home entertainment performances of , , , and as well as various catalog titles. Additionally, the full year included several strong theatrical releases, most notably and
Day After Tomorrow
Alien vs. Predator
Garfield
Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story, I, Robot
Napoleon Dynamite,
I, Robot, Alien vs. Predator, Hide and Seek, Sideways, Robots, Star Wars Episode 3: Revenge of the Sith
Mr. and Mrs. Smith.
 
Twentieth Century Fox Television fourth quarter results primarily reflect sustained momentum in home entertainment and international sales, particularly from
The
 
 
The increased full year results also included the solid performance of , as well as strong home entertainment sales of , and .
Simpsons.
The Simpsons
24
Family Guy
King of the Hill
 
TELEVISION
 
The Television segment reported fourth quarter operating income of $344 million, a decrease of $7 million versus the same period a year ago, and full year operating income of $952 million, a slight increase over fiscal 2004. Both the quarter and full year results primarily reflect higher contributions from STAR which were offset by a decline at the FOX Broadcasting Company (FBC).
 
Fox Television Stations' fourth quarter operating income declined 5% from the same period a year ago as softness in the overall advertising market and the negative impact of local people meters more than offset the success of local morning newscasts. For the full year, operating income grew slightly as reduced entertainment programming costs from lower costing syndicated programming more than offset the expansion of local news in several markets, as well as the advertising market weakness and local people meter impact. The softness in the domestic advertising market was also partially offset by revenues generated from increased political advertising as well as FBC's broadcast of Super Bowl XXXIX.
 
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, fourth quarter and full year operating income decreased compared to a year ago as higher advertising revenues from increased pricing were more than offset by increased license fees on returning programs. The full year also included additional advertising revenues from FBC's airing of Super Bowl XXXIX, which were more than offset by license fees associated with the broadcast. FBC finished the broadcast season as the number one network among Adults 18-49 led by the growth of returning series and as well as strong ratings from the new hit series and various sporting events.
American Idol
24,
House
 
STAR's fourth quarter and full year operating income more than doubled on revenue growth of 24% and 14%, respectively, versus the comparable periods a year ago. Revenue gains for both the fourth quarter and full year primarily reflect the continued strength of STAR Plus and STAR Gold, as well as contributions from several new channels in India.
 
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
 
Cable Network Programming reported fourth quarter operating income of $137 million, an increase of $17 million over the fourth quarter a year ago and record full year operating income of $702 million, an increase of $214 million over fiscal 2004. The 14% fourth quarter growth and 44% full year growth reflect advertising and affiliate strength at Fox News Channel, FX and the Regional Sports Networks. The full year results also reflect the lack of NHL programming costs at the Regional Sports Networks due to the cancellation of the season and the absence of losses from the Los Angeles Dodgers, which was sold during the third quarter of fiscal 2004.
 
 
Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 30% for the fourth quarter and 40% for the full year fueled primarily by double-digit advertising revenue growth, which was partially offset by higher costs associated with covering international breaking news stories. During the quarter FNC further increased its leadership position as the number one cable news channel, more than doubling the viewership of its nearest competitor in prime-time and nearly 90% higher on a 24-hour basis. The continued ratings strength in the quarter helped drive full year viewership up 30% in primetime and up 17% on a 24-hour basis, the largest gains of any cable news channels.
 
At our other cable channels (including the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs), the FX Channel (FX) and SPEED Channel) operating profit was in-line with the fourth quarter a year ago while growing 32% for the full year. At the RSNs, fourth quarter and full year revenue gains, primarily from increased affiliate rates and additional DBS subscribers, were offset by additional MLB and NBA events and increased average rights fees versus the same period a year ago. Both the quarter and full year results also included higher revenues and costs associated with the consolidation of FSN Ohio and FSN Florida after acquiring a controlling stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. At FX, double-digit revenue growth in the fourth quarter and full year was driven by affiliate revenue growth from increased rates and additional subscribers, as well as higher advertising revenues from ratings growth and increased pricing. These revenue gains were more than offset in the fourth quarter and partially offset in the full year by higher programming costs primarily from additional airings of original hit series and as well as increased movie costs.
The Shield
Rescue Me,
 
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
 
SKY Italia reported fourth quarter operating income of $74 million, an improvement of $100 million versus a loss of $26 million a year ago on local currency revenue growth of 36%. For the full year, Sky Italia reported an operating loss of $173 million, an improvement of $104 million from the $277 million loss reported in fiscal 2004 on local currency revenue growth of 31%. These improvements primarily reflect strong subscriber additions, with more than 650,000 net new subscribers added over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to more than 3.3 million at fiscal year end. The full year subscriber growth includes 78,000 net additions during the fourth quarter, an increase of 29% compared with the same quarter a year ago. The revenue growth was partially offset during the quarter and full year by increased programming spending primarily due to the broadcast of additional soccer matches and movie titles as well as the addition of ten new entertainment and news channels on the basic programming tier.
 
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
 
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported fourth quarter operating income of $82 million, an increase of 24% versus the $66 million reported in the fourth quarter a year ago and full year operating income of $298 million, a 10% increase over fiscal 2004. The fourth quarter and full year growth was driven by higher contributions from the InStore division on increased advertising.
 
 
NEWSPAPERS
 
The Newspapers segment reported fourth quarter operating income of $252 million, an increase of $135 million versus the same period a year ago and full year operating income of $740 million, a 31% increase over fiscal 2004. Advertising strength throughout the year, particularly in Australia, and the inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group beginning in the second quarter, drove the year-on-year growth.
 
The Australian newspaper group reported a substantial increase in fourth quarter and full year operating income in local currency terms versus fiscal 2004. The fourth quarter and full year results were primarily driven by a robust advertising market and the inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group. Advertising revenue continued to grow due to the strength of the national display and employment classified markets.
 
The U.K. newspaper group also reported strong operating income growth in local currency terms in the fourth quarter and a modest decline for the full year versus the comparable periods a year ago. Both fourth quarter and full year results were driven by circulation revenue growth and lower marketing costs which were partially offset in the quarter and more than offset for the year by higher depreciation costs associated with the planned development of new color printing operations. The circulation revenue gains were a result of sales growth at , which moved fully to a compact version, as well as from increased cover prices across each of the major titles.
The Times
 
BOOK PUBLISHING
 
HarperCollins reported fourth quarter operating income of $12 million, an increase of $7 million versus the same period a year ago and full year operating income of $164 million, up $7 million over prior year results that included strong sales of Zondervan's . Current quarter results were led by revenues from Lemony Snicket's , by Michael Roizen and Mehmet Oz, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner and HarperCollins UK's . The full year also included strong sales of by Jack Welch with Suzy Welch and ReganBooks' by Jose Canseco. During the fourth quarter, HarperCollins had 46 books on The New York Times bestseller list including six titles that reached number one and for the full year HarperCollins had 103 books on The New York Times bestseller list including 15 titles that reached the number one spot.
The Purpose Driven Life
A Series of Unfortunate Events
YOU: The Owner's Manual
Freakonomics
The Times Su Doku
Winning
Juiced
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
The Company has increased its dividend for fiscal 2005 to $0.12 per share of Class A Common Stock and $0.10 per share of Class B Common Stock. An interim dividend of $0.05 per Class A Common Stock and $0.02 per Class B Common Stock was previously paid on April 20, 2005. The remaining $0.07 per Class A Common Stock and $0.08 per Class B Common Stock has been declared and is payable on October 19, 2005. The record date for determining dividend entitlements is September 14, 2005.
 
 
News Corporation announced today that its Board of Directors has determined to extend the expiration date of the Company's stockholder rights plan for an additional two-year period. The rights plan, which was originally adopted on November 8, 2004, was scheduled to expire by its terms on November 8, 2005. One reason for the initial adoption of the rights plan was Liberty Media Corporation's decision to enter into arrangements to acquire substantial amounts of News Corporation's voting stock without prior discussions with, or notice to, News Corporation. As Liberty continues to own approximately 18% of the Company's Class B Common Stock, and to prevent potential future acquisitions of significant amounts of News Corporation voting stock by Liberty without consultation with the Board, the Board has determined to extend the expiration of the stockholder rights plan until Liberty Media Corporation and the Company reach a favorable resolution with respect to Liberty's ownership stake. In that event, the Board of Directors expects to redeem the existing stockholder rights plan and will also consider eliminating the Company's classified board structure. For more information about the Company's existing stockholder rights plan, see Exhibit B to Form 6-K (File No. 1-09141) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 8, 2004 and Exhibit 4.39 to Form 8-K (File No. 001-32352) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 24, 2004.
 
On June 13, 2005 the Company announced the approval of a stock repurchase program, under which it is authorized to acquire from time to time up to $3 billion in the Company's Class A and Class B common stock. The repurchases will be made through open market transactions and the timing of such transactions and class of shares purchased will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions. The program is expected to be completed within two years, but may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of June 30, 2005 the Company has purchased approximately $530 million of stock under the program.
 
During the quarter the Company, along with Cablevision Systems Corporation, completed its previously announced agreement to restructure its ownership of six regional sports networks held in the jointly owned Regional Programming Partners venture. As a result of this transaction, the Company now owns 100% of Fox Sports Ohio, Fox Sports Florida, Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners and no longer has an ownership interest in Madison Square Garden and its properties, Fox Sports Chicago and Fox Sports New England.
 
Following the quarter, the Company announced that it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Intermix Media, Inc. for approximately $580 million in cash, or the equivalent of $12 per common share. In a separate transaction, Intermix announced that it exercised its option to acquire the 47 percent of MySpace.com that it does not already own. Both MySpace.com and Intermix's more than 30 sites will become part of News Corporation's newly formed Fox Interactive Media unit. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of calendar 2005 and is subject to certain customary conditions including approval by the Intermix common and preferred stockholders.
 
 
REVIEW OF ASSOCIATED ENTITIES RESULTS
 
Fourth quarter net earnings from associated entities were $201 million versus $82 million in the same period a year ago. For the full year, net earnings from associated entities were $355 million compared with earnings of $170 million in fiscal 2004. The year-on-year improvement in the fourth quarter was primarily due to increased contributions from BSkyB and The DIRECTV Group as well as the comparatively favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations at the Latin American DTH platforms. The fourth quarter a year ago included the favorable results at Regional Programming Partners due mainly to the income recognized from the termination of a sports broadcast rights agreement.
 
The Company's share of associated entities' earnings (losses) is as follows:
 
 
Further details on the associated entities follow.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
 
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date profit results are as follows:
 
 
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com
 
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the fourth quarter and full year results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:45 PM. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
 
 
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
The twelve months ended June 30, 2005 include $49 million of costs associated with our reincorporation in the United States.
 
 
NOTE 1SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA
 
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis as the Company will not be required to present the two class method beginning in Fiscal 2008. Currently under US GAAP earnings per share is computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 2OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
 
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
 
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 


