FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20050222170106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
On February 22, 2005, News Corporation and Cablevision Systems Corporation announced an agreement to restructure their ownership, through Regional Programming Partners, of six regional sports networks in New York, Chicago, New England, Ohio and Florida, as well as Madison Square Garden and its properties, Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Exhibit Index
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 22, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 Cablevision Systems Corporation (NYSE: CVC) and News Corporation (NYSE: NWS) today announced an agreement to restructure their ownership, through Regional Programming Partners (RPP), of six regional sports networks in New York, Chicago, New England, Ohio and Florida, as well as Madison Square Garden and its properties, Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners.
NEW YORK, NY, February 22, 2005
 
RPP is owned 60% by Cablevision and 40% by News Corporation. Once the restructuring is complete, Cablevision will own 100% of Madison Square Garden and its properties including the Arena; The Theater at Madison Square Garden; the sports teams  the New York Knicks, Rangers, and Liberty; Radio City; MSG Network; and FSN New York. Cablevision will also own 100% of FSN Chicago, as well as 50% of FSN New England. Cablevision will continue to manage all of these businesses.
 
News Corporation will own 100% of Fox Sports Net as well as FSN Ohio, FSN Florida and National Advertising Partners. Following the restructuring, News Corporation will assume management of both FSN Ohio and FSN Florida and continue its management of Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners.
 
Cablevision and News Corp. will continue to own 60% and 40% respectively of FSN Bay Area through their partnership. Cablevision will continue to manage that network.
 
Cablevision Vice Chairman Hank Ratner said: "Our partnership with News Corporation has successfully developed and grown some of the most powerful brands in today's sports market. At this stage, having full ownership and management of these properties under one parent will greatly simplify the financial and operating structure of these businesses, while allowing Cablevision to consolidate our sports and entertainment interests in the key New York market. We look forward to continuing our relationship with News Corporation and working together with our FSN Bay Area property."
 
News Corporation President and Chief Operating Officer Peter Chernin said: "These sports assets have thrived under our strong relationship with Cablevision. Our companies' diverging interests have meant that it made sense to realign our partnership, but we are very happy that we will continue to work together in the regional sports business. We look forward to taking full ownership of FSN Florida and FSN Ohio, two strong and growing regional sports channels."
 
The restructuring is generally a tax-free exchange of assets.
 
Page 2  Cablevision and News Corp. to Restructure Ownership of Sports and Entertainment Assets
 
About Cablevision
 
Cablevision Systems Corporation is one of the nation's leading entertainment, media and telecommunications companies. In addition to its cable, Internet, and voice offerings, the company owns and operates Rainbow Media Holdings LLC and its networks; Madison Square Garden and its teams; and, Clearview Cinemas. In addition, Cablevision operates New York's famed Radio City Music Hall.
 
About News Corporation
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of December 31, 2004 of approximately US$53 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$22 billion. News Corporation is a diversified international media and entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin. For more information about News Corporation, please visit www.newscorp.com.
 
This release contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which it operates and the factors described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. The company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein.
 
 
Page 3  Cablevision and News Corp. to Restructure Ownership of Sports and Entertainment Assets
 
 
Present Structure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transaction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post Transaction Ownership Structure:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


