FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20050208112612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01   Other Events.
 
On February 7, 2005, News Corporation (the "Company") announced that a hearing has been scheduled to be held in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware on March 1, 2005, to rule on plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction prohibiting completion of the Company's previously announced exchange offer for outstanding shares of Fox Entertainment Group, Inc.'s ("Fox") Class A common stock. The Company also announced that it has extended the exchange offer, previously scheduled to expire at midnight on February 22, 2005, until midnight, New York City time, on March 4, 2005. Plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction was brought in connection with a previously filed purported class action lawsuit on behalf of Fox stockholders other than the Company. The Company believes that these claims are without merit and intends to vigorously contest such allegations.
 
Also on February 7, 2005, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware entered an order consolidating the previously filed purported class action complaints brought on behalf of Fox stockholders other than the Company challenging the offer, designating the amended class action complaint filed by certain plaintiffs in connection therewith on January 27, 2005, as the operative complaint in the consolidated action and captioning the consolidated action as Consolidated C.A. No. 1033-N.
In Re Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. Shareholders Litigation,
 
Attached as exhibit 99.1 is the press release issued by the Company announcing the hearing date and the extension of the exchange offer for all outstanding shares of Fox Class A common stock.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 8, 2005
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
New York, NY, February 7, 2005  News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today announced that a hearing has been scheduled to be held in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware on March 1, 2005, to rule on plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction prohibiting completion of News Corporation's previously announced exchange offer for outstanding shares of Fox Entertainment Group, Inc.'s Class A common stock (NYSE: FOX). News Corporation also announced that it has extended the exchange offer, previously scheduled to expire at midnight on February 22, 2005, until midnight, New York City time, on March 4, 2005.
 
Plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction was brought in connection with a previously filed purported class action lawsuit on behalf of Fox stockholders other than News Corporation. News Corporation believes that these claims are without merit and intends to vigorously contest such allegations.
 
The exchange agent for the offer has advised News Corporation that, as of 5:00 P.M., New York City time, February 4, 2005, an aggregate of approximately 1,099,398 shares of Fox Class A common stock have been tendered to News Corporation in the exchange offer. News Corporation had anticipated that the vast majority of the shares that would be ultimately tendered in connection with the offer would be tendered in the final few days before the final expiration date of the exchange offer.
 
 
WHERE TO FIND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 
In connection with the offer by Fox Acquisition Corp (a wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation) of shares of News Corporation Class A common stock in exchange for shares of Fox Class A common stock (the "Exchange Offer"), News Corporation has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 containing a prospectus relating to the Exchange Offer and a Schedule TO. FOX STOCKHOLDERS AND OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES ARE URGED TO READ THESE DOCUMENTS (AND ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS TO THESE DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE) BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT NEWS CORPORATION, FOX, FOX ACQUISITION CORP AND THE EXCHANGE OFFER. Materials filed with the SEC will be available electronically without charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. Documents filed with the SEC may be obtained without charge at News Corporation's website, www.newscorp.com, or by directing a request to News Corporation's investor relations department at News Corporation, Investor Relations, 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036.
 
In addition, Fox stockholders may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by directing a written or oral request to the information agent for the Exchange Offer, Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc., collect at (212) 440-9800 or toll-free at (866) 873-6991.
 
News Corporation had total assets as of December 31, 2004 of approximately US$53 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$22 billion. News Corporation is a diversified international media and entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of an appropriate prospectus.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This communication contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which it operates and the factors described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. The company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein.
 


