FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20051110161422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On November 10, 2005, News Corporation released its financial results for the three months ended September 30, 2005. A copy of News Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: November 10, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported first quarter consolidated revenues of $5.7 billion, a 10% increase over the $5.1 billion in the prior year.
NEW YORK, NY, November 10, 2005 
 
Consolidated operating income for the first quarter of $909 million was up 19% over the $766 million a year ago. The operating income growth during the first quarter was driven by double-digit percentage increases at the Filmed Entertainment, Cable Network Programming, Magazines and Inserts and Book Publishing segments, as well as by significant improvement at SKY Italia.
 
Income for the first quarter, before cumulative effect of accounting change, was $580 million, ($0.18 per share on a diluted combined basis
1
), as compared to net income of $625 million ($0.21 per share on a diluted combined basis
1
) reported in the first quarter a year ago. These results reflect an increase in consolidated operating income and an improvement in equity earnings of affiliates, offset by reduced Other income from the unrealized change in fair value of certain outstanding exchangeable debt securities and an increased tax provision resulting from a benefit in the prior year from the resolution of certain tax examinations.
 
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
 
"Our first quarter results reflect yet again the fiscal and operational momentum we have enjoyed for quite some time. Indeed, this was our 15
th
consecutive quarter reporting year-on-year operating income and revenue growth, and we delivered strong gains across nearly all of our operating segments. The sustained revenue, profit and cash flow strength from our established asset base has afforded us the opportunity to invest in several non-traditional media businesses that are experiencing explosive growth.
 
"Despite increased competition, SKY Italia is well on its way to a full year of profitability, improving its operating results in the quarter by $60 million, while renewing a large portion of its subscriber base. And we have opportunistically expanded into new media, acquiring several assets which complement our existing businesses and which we believe enable us to better monetize our vast library of popular content. With solid momentum throughout the Company and a strong foundation of new media investments, we believe we are ideally situated to deliver continued strong returns in the future."
 
 
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
 
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
 
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported first quarter operating income of $368 million, up $77 million from the $291 million reported in the same period a year ago. The 26% growth primarily reflects strong syndication and home entertainment contributions from Twentieth Century Fox Television (TCFTV) and strong worldwide theatrical and pay-TV revenues from film releases.
 
First quarter film results were largely driven by the home entertainment performances of and as well as by contributions from various catalog titles
Robots
Hide and Seek,
 
 
including and . Additionally, the worldwide theatrical performance of , which has grossed over $320 million to date, and the pay-TV availability of and contributed to the strong quarterly results. The first quarter a year ago included the home entertainment performances of and and the theatrical performances of and
Dodgeball, Napoleon Dynamite
Garfield
Fantastic Four
Alien vs. Predator
I, Robot
The Star Wars Trilogy
Passion of the Christ
The Day After Tomorrow, Dodgeball, I, Robot
Alien Vs. Predator.
 
At TCFTV, increased first quarter results primarily reflect higher syndication contributions from the and as well as continued momentum in home entertainment sales, particularly from and During the quarter TCFTV premiered several successful new series, including the number one new show on FOX, , and the number one new comedy of the season, , airing on NBC.
X-Files
Dharma and Greg,
Family Guy
24.
Prison Break
My Name is Earl
 
TELEVISION
 
The Television segment reported first quarter operating income of $160 million, a decrease of $74 million versus the same period a year ago primarily reflecting lower contributions from Fox Television Stations and a decline at the FOX Broadcasting Company resulting from the timing of the launch of the fall lineup.
 
Fox Television Stations' (FTS) first quarter operating income declined 10% from the same period a year ago primarily as a result of higher programming costs from additional local sports rights and the continued expansion of local news. Despite softness in the overall advertising market and lower political spending, revenues for the quarter were only down slightly from a year ago as FTS generated record market share with a stronger primetime line-up, continued success in morning news and the addition of local baseball, as well as the absence of competition from the Summer Olympics which took place in the first quarter a year ago.
 
At the FOX Broadcasting Company (FBC), first quarter operating results decreased compared to a year ago as higher advertising revenues, primarily from ratings growth of 16% among Adults 18-49, were more than offset by increased promotional costs associated with the earlier debut of FBC's new fall line-up versus last season. This accelerated timing of the fall launch, as well as higher license fees on several returning series, also resulted in higher programming costs versus the first quarter a year ago.
 
STAR's first quarter operating income declined versus a year ago as revenue growth of 22%, primarily in India, was more than offset by higher programming and promotional costs from the launch of new channels and an expanded programming line-up at STAR Plus. The revenue growth was driven by increased advertising revenues at STAR Plus from the re-launch of , India's version of , and from higher subscription revenues reflecting new channel offerings and the international distribution of several of STAR's channels.
Kuan Banega Crorepati
Who Wants To Be A Millionaire
 
 
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
 
Cable Network Programming reported first quarter operating income of $197 million, an increase of $31 million over the first quarter a year ago. The 19% growth reflects advertising and affiliate strength at Fox News Channel and the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs).
 
Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 64% for the first quarter as strong revenue growth, primarily from increased advertising, more than offset higher costs associated with covering hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Viewership in the quarter was up 31% in primetime and 30% on a 24-hour basis despite coverage of the Democratic and Republican National Conventions a year ago.
 
At our other cable channels (including the RSNs, the FX Channel (FX) and SPEED Channel) operating profit increased 11% versus the first quarter a year ago. At the RSNs, first quarter revenue gains, primarily from increased affiliate rates and additional DBS subscribers, were partially offset by costs associated with broadcasting additional baseball games and increased average rights fees versus the same period a year ago. Current quarter results also included higher revenues and costs associated with the consolidation of FSN Ohio, FSN Florida and National Sports Partners after acquiring a controlling stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. At FX, double-digit revenue growth in the quarter was driven by increased affiliate revenues from higher rates and additional subscribers, as well as by increased advertising revenues on ratings growth and higher pricing. These revenue gains were offset primarily by increased programming and promotional costs for several new original series.
 
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
 
SKY Italia reported first quarter operating loss of $61 million, an improvement of $60 million versus a loss of $121 million a year ago on local currency revenue growth of 20%. This improvement primarily reflects subscriber additions, with more than 568,000 net new subscribers added over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 3.4 million at quarter end. Additionally, average revenue per user increased versus the first quarter a year ago reflecting a price increase beginning in June 2005 for new customers. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming spending primarily due to the broadcast of additional movie titles, as well as the addition of new entertainment channels on the basic programming tier.
 
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
 
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported first quarter operating income of $76 million, an increase of 19% versus the $64 million reported in the quarter a year ago. The growth was driven by higher contributions from the In-Store division due to increased demand for its advertising products and from the free standing inserts division where higher volumes were driven by increased demand for packaged goods pages.
 
 
NEWSPAPERS
 
The Newspapers segment reported first quarter operating income of $125 million, an increase of $7 million versus the same period a year ago. The inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group, which was acquired in November 2004, as well as higher advertising revenues in Australia, drove the year-on-year growth.
 
The Australian newspaper group reported a substantial increase in first quarter operating income in local currency terms versus fiscal 2005. The growth was primarily driven by the inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group and increased advertising revenue with particular strength in the national display and employment classified markets.
 
The U.K. newspaper group reported an operating income decline in local currency terms in the first quarter as circulation revenue growth was more than offset by lower advertising revenues and higher depreciation costs associated with the development of new color printing operations. The circulation revenue gains were the result of increased cover prices across all major titles, as well as from the conversion to a compact version at .
The Times
 
BOOK PUBLISHING
 
HarperCollins reported first quarter operating income of $70 million, an increase of $10 million versus the same period a year ago that included strong sales of Zondervan's . The 17% year-on-year increase was driven by strong sales of series by C.S. Lewis, as well as by the continuing success of by Michael Roizen and Mehmet Oz, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner and by Bernard Goldberg. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 42 books on The New York Times bestseller list, including six books that reached the #1 spot.
The Purpose Driven Life
The Chronicles of Narnia
YOU: The Owner's Manual
Freakonomics
100 People Screwing Up America
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted, as required, Emerging Issues Task Force Topic No. D-108 (Topic D-108), which calls for the use of the direct value method, rather than the residual value method previously used by the Company, when performing the annual impairment test under SFAS 142. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of $1.0 billion, net of tax, or $0.31 per share on a diluted combined basis, in the first quarter, to reduce the intangible balances attributable to its television stations' FCC licenses. This charge has been reflected as a cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
 
In September 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common and preferred stock of Intermix Media, Inc. ("Intermix"). Shortly after the end of the quarter, Intermix acquired the 47% of MySpace.com that it did not already own. The consideration for these acquisitions was approximately $650 million in cash. Also subsequent to the quarter end, the Company completed its previously announced acquisition of IGN
 
 
Entertainment, Inc. for $650 million in cash. The sites owned by Intermix and IGN are now part of News Corporation's newly formed Fox Interactive Media unit.
 
On June 13, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, under which the Company is authorized to acquire up to an aggregate of $3 billion in the Company's Class A and Class B common stock. The program is expected to be completed within two years, but may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of November 10, 2005, the Company has purchased approximately $950 million of stock under the program.
 
 
EQUITY EARNINGS OF AFFILIATES
 
First quarter net earnings of affiliates were $186 million versus $15 million in the same period a year ago. The year-on-year increase was primarily due to improved results at The DIRECTV Group as an increase in the number of subscribers and higher revenue per subscriber drove revenue growth. The prior year included the Company's share of DIRECTV's loss from its sale of PanAmSat and the Company's portion of the SPACEWAY program impairment. The year-on-year improvement in equity earnings of affiliates also reflects increased contributions from BSkyB as a result of higher DTH subscribers and increased pricing, partly offset by higher subscriber acquisition costs.
 
The Company's share of equity earnings (losses) of affiliates is as follows:
 
 
Further details on certain affiliated entities follow.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
 
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date profit results are as follows:
 
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com
 
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the first quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
 
 
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
NOTE 1  SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA
 
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis as the Company will not be required to present the two-class method beginning in fiscal 2008. Currently, under GAAP, earnings per share is computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 2OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
 
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
 
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 


