FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20050110091718.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
 
News Corporation ("News Corporation") (NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) issued a press release today announcing that it has made a proposal to its subsidiary Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. ("Fox") (NYSE: FOX) to acquire all of the shares of Fox Class A common stock that News Corporation does not already own. News Corporation intends to effect the transaction through an exchange offer made directly to Fox stockholders. News Corporation expects to file its offering materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and to commence its exchange offer later today. News Corporation currently owns approximately 82.1% of the equity and 97.0% of the voting power of Fox. Such ownership is in the form of approximately 59.1% of the outstanding shares of Fox Class A common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of Fox Class B common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the exchange offer, holders of Fox Class A common stock will receive 1.90 shares of News Corporation's Class A common stock in exchange for each outstanding share of Fox Class A common stock validly tendered and not withdrawn in the exchange offer.
 
News Corporation's offer will be conditioned upon, among other things, the tender of a majority of Fox Class A common stock not beneficially owned, as of the close of business on the date immediately prior to the expiration of the offer, by News Corporation or its affiliates, directors and executive officers, or the directors and executive officers of Fox. In addition, assuming the offer is completed, News Corporation will own at least 90% of the outstanding shares of Fox Class A common stock and Fox Class B common stock following the offer and will complete promptly a short form merger at the same per share consideration as is provided for in the offer unless prevented from doing so by a court or other legal requirement. News Corporation believes that the transaction will be tax-free to Fox stockholders.
 
News Corporation expects that the Fox board will form a special committee of Fox directors that are not directors or executive officers of News Corporation to consider News Corporation's proposal and make a recommendation to the Fox stockholders regarding the proposal. The directors and executive officers of News Corporation who sit on the Fox board will support that delegation of authority to the special committee. News Corporation also will encourage the special committee to retain its own legal and financial advisors to assist in its review of the exchange offer.
 
News Corporation intends to file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 containing a prospectus relating to the exchange offer and a Schedule TO. Fox stockholders and other interested parties are urged to read News Corporation's prospectus and other related documents that are expected to be filed with the SEC because those documents will contain important information about News Corporation, Fox and the exchange offer.
 
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1. A copy of News Corporation's proposal letter, which was delivered to the Fox board of directors today, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 10, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
New York, January 10, 2005News Corporation (NYSE: NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today announced that it has made a proposal to its subsidiary Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. ("Fox") to acquire all of the shares of Fox Class A common stock (NYSE: FOX) that News Corporation does not already own. News Corporation intends to effect the transaction through an exchange offer made directly to Fox stockholders. News Corporation will commence the exchange offer later today.
 
News Corporation currently owns approximately 82.1% of the equity and 97.0% of the voting power of Fox through its ownership of approximately 59.1% of the outstanding shares of Fox Class A common stock and 100% of the outstanding shares of Fox Class B common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the exchange offer, holders of Fox Class A common stock will receive 1.90 shares of News Corporation's Class A common stock in exchange for each outstanding share of Fox Class A common stock validly tendered and not withdrawn in the exchange offer. Based on the current price of News Corporation's Class A shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the consideration offered represents a premium of approximately 7.4% to the January 7, 2005 closing price of Fox's Class A common stock, a premium of approximately 16.9% over Fox's six-month average trading price and a premium of approximately 18% over Fox's 12-month average trading price.
 
ABOUT THE EXCHANGE OFFER
 
News Corporation expects to file its offering materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and commence its exchange offer later today. News Corporation's offer will be conditioned upon, among other things, the tender of a majority of Fox Class A common stock not owned by News Corporation. In addition, assuming the offer is completed, News Corporation will own at least 90% of the outstanding shares of Fox Class A common stock and Fox Class B common stock following the offer and will complete promptly a short form merger at the same per share consideration as is provided for in the offer. News Corporation believes that both the exchange offer and the subsequent merger will be tax-free to Fox stockholders.
 
News Corporation expects that the Fox board of directors will form a special committee of Fox directors who are not directors or executive officers of News Corporation to consider News Corporation's proposal and make a recommendation to the Fox stockholders regarding the proposal. The directors and executive officers of News Corporation who sit on the Fox board will support that delegation of authority to the special committee. News Corporation also will encourage the special committee to retain its own legal and financial advisors to assist in its review.
 
WHERE TO FIND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 
In connection with the offer by Fox Acquisition Corp (a wholly-owned subsidiary of News Corporation) of shares of News Corporation Class A common stock in exchange for shares of Fox Class A common stock (the "Exchange Offer"), News Corporation intends to file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 containing a prospectus relating to the Exchange Offer and a Schedule TO. FOX STOCKHOLDERS AND OTHER INTERESTED PARTIES ARE URGED TO READ NEWS CORPORATION'S PROSPECTUS AND OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT NEWS CORPORATION, FOX, FOX ACQUISITION CORP AND THE EXCHANGE OFFER . Materials filed with the SEC will be available electronically without charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov. Documents filed with the SEC may be obtained without charge at News Corporation's website, www.newscorp.com, or by directing a request to News Corporation's investor relations department at News Corporation, Investor Relations, 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10036.
 
In addition, Fox stockholders may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by directing a written or oral request to the information agent for the Exchange Offer, Georgeson Shareholder Communications, Inc., collect at (212) 440-9800 or toll-free at (866) 873-6991.
THIS NEWS RELEASE IS FOR INFORMATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY AND IS NOT AN EXCHANGE OFFER. THE EXCHANGE OFFER WILL BE ONLY PURSUANT TO A PROSPECTUS, A RELATED LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL AND OTHER OFFER DOCUMENTS.
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of an appropriate prospectus.
 
ABOUT NEWS CORPORATION
 
News Corporation is a diversified international media and entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which it operates and the factors described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. The company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Board of Directors
Fox Entertainment Group, Inc.
1211 Avenue of the Americas
New York, NY 10036
 
Gentlemen:
 
News Corporation hereby proposes to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. ("Fox") Class A common stock (NYSE: FOX) that are not owned by News Corporation by exchanging 1.9 shares of News Corporation's Class A common stock (NYSE: NWS.A) for each outstanding share of Fox Class A common stock. Based on the closing price of News Corporation Class A common stock on January 7, 2005, the proposal will provide a premium of approximately 7.4% to the closing price of Fox Class A common stock on such date, and a premium of approximately 16.9% to the average trading price of Fox Class A common for the preceding six months and a premium of approximately 18% to the average trading price of Fox Class A common stock for the preceding twelve months.
 
News Corporation believes that the holders of Fox Class A common stock will find the proposal beneficial to them due to the substantial premium to the recent trading range of Fox Class A common stock, the attractiveness of News Corporation Class A common stock and the opportunity for greater liquidity. In addition, since Fox will continue to represent a significant part of News Corporation's business, News Corporation believes that Fox stockholders, through their ownership of News Corporation Class A common stock, will continue to benefit from the growth of Fox, as well as the other attractive businesses owned and operated by News Corporation.
 
News Corporation currently intends to structure the acquisition as an exchange offer made directly to the holders of Fox Class A common stock. Under federal securities law the Fox board will be required to consider the offer and communicate with the holders of Fox Class A common stock concerning its views on the offer. News Corporation expects that the Fox board will form a special committee of Fox directors that are not directors or executive officers of News Corporation to consider News Corporation's proposal and make a recommendation to the Fox stockholders regarding the proposal. The directors and executive officers of News Corporation who sit on the Fox board will support that delegation of authority to the special committee. News Corporation also will encourage the special committee to retain its own legal and financial advisors to assist in its review. News Corporation intends to file its offering materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission and commence its offer later today.
 
While Delaware law does not require that News Corporation negotiate with the Fox board or reach any agreement with the Fox board concerning the offer, News Corporation would, nonetheless, be happy to meet with the special committee to answer any questions it may have. News Corporation's proposal, however, is not conditioned upon the special committee recommending or approving the offer.
News Corporation's exchange offer will be irrevocably conditioned upon, among other things, the tender of a majority of the shares of Fox Class A common stock not owned by News Corporation. In addition, assuming the offer is completed, News Corporation will own at least 90% of the outstanding shares of Fox Class A common stock and Fox Class B common stock following the offer and will complete promptly a short form merger at the same per share consideration as is provided for in the offer. News Corporation believes that both the exchange offer and the subsequent merger will be tax-free to Fox stockholders.
 
News Corporation's entire team, including its legal and financial advisors will be available to answer any questions which the special committee or its legal and financial advisors may have regarding the offer.
 
In considering the offer, you should be aware that News Corporation is interested only in acquiring the publicly held shares of Fox Class A common stock, and is not interested in selling any of its shares of Fox.
 
Please also be aware that News Corporation will be issuing a press release announcing its proposal.
 
 


