FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20051003170449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act(17CFR240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act(17CFR240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act(17CFR240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
        On October 3, 2005, News Corporation (the "Company") announced that News International Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("News International"), had reached an agreement to sell its TSL Education Ltd. division to Exponent Private Equity LLP for 235 million British pounds sterling.
News International was advised by Allen & Company LLC, a U.S. based investment bank. Mr. Stanley Shuman, a non-executive director of News Corporation, is a Managing Director of Allen & Company LLC.
        Reference is hereby made to the press release announcing the sale, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit
Number
                 Description
99.1                 Press Release, dated October 3, 2005, announcing an agreement to sell the TSL Education Ltd. division.
 
 
Pursuant to the Requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the Undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News International Limited
News Release
For immediate release Contact Alison Clark 020 7782 6019
3 October 2005
 
London, 3 October 2005: News International has reached an agreement to sell its TSL Education Ltd division to Exponent Private Equity for 235 million British pounds sterling.
TSL is the leading publisher of business-to-business newspapers, magazines and websites for the UK education market. Its main print titles are The Times Educational Supplement (TES), The Times Higher Education Supplement (the Higher) and Nursery World.
The Times Literary Supplement will not be part of the sale.
News International and Exponent have also reached an agreement under which NI will continue to print and distribute The Times Educational Supplement and The Times Higher Education Supplement as well as providing financial and other services.
News International was advised by Allen & Company LLC, a New York- based investment bank.
ENDS
Notes:
is the main UK subsidiary of the global media company News Corporation. News International subsidiary Times Newspapers Ltd publishes The Times and The Sunday Times, and the subsidiary News Group Newspapers publishes The Sun and News of the World.
News International
Limited
(NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of June 30, 2005 of approximately US$55 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$24 billion. News Corporation is a diversified international media and entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin. Further information can be found at www.newscorp.com
News Corporation
Further information on Exponent Private Equity can be found at: www.exponentpe.com


