FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20050504160731.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 4, 2005, News Corporation released its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. A copy of News Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit Index
 
99.1    Press release issued by News Corporation, dated May 4, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 4, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Corporation
 
 
 
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported third quarter consolidated revenues of $6.0 billion, a 17% increase over the $5.2 billion in the prior year, and consolidated operating income of $889 million, up 9% over the $815 million a year ago. The year-on-year operating income growth was driven by double-digit percentage increases at the Filmed Entertainment and Cable Network Programming segments.
NEW YORK, NY, May 4, 2005 
 
Net income for the third quarter was $400 million, ($0.13 diluted earnings per share on a combined basis
1
), a decrease of $34 million from the $434 million ($0.15 diluted earnings per share on a combined basis
1
) reported in the third quarter a year ago. Higher consolidated operating income and an improvement in equity earnings of affiliates were more than offset by a $77 million loss recognized on the restructuring of the Company's investment in Regional Programming Partners which is included in Other, net.
 
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
 
"Our third quarter results were led by the strong performances of our filmed entertainment and cable network programming segments and was achieved despite a weaker performance at television. While the television segment was down year-on-year, reflecting higher programming costs and the soft advertising marketplace in the US, our stations generated record market share and the broadcast network, on the heels of its victory during the February sweeps, is poised to win the broadcast season ratings race for the first time in its history. SKY Italia, buoyed by revenue expansion of 20% in local currency, continued on its path to profitability  which we expect to deliver for the first time in the fourth quarteras subscriber churn remained at low levels. And we are also pleased with the operating progress being demonstrated by DIRECTV, with net new subscriber additions of 505,000 during the quarter and an encouraging reduction in churn. The financial and operational momentum we have maintained across our broad asset base gives us confidence in our ability to achieve the fiscal year targets we have set."
 
Consolidated Operating Income
 
 
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
 
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
 
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported record third quarter operating income of $251 million, up 15% versus the $218 million reported in the same period a year ago. The current quarter results primarily reflect strong worldwide theatrical revenues and increased contributions from film and television home entertainment releases.
 
Third quarter film results were largely driven by the worldwide home entertainment release of , the domestic home entertainment performance of and continued international home entertainment contributions from . In addition, the current quarter included the initial results and related releasing
Alien vs. Predator
Napoleon Dynamite
I, Robot
 
 
costs from several strong theatrical releases, most notably and , as well as the continued success of . The third quarter a year ago included the worldwide home entertainment performance of and the worldwide theatrical performance of
Robots
Hide & Seek
Sideways
The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen
Cheaper By The Dozen.
 
Twentieth Century Fox Television (TCFTV) also reported increased contributions versus the third quarter a year ago primarily reflecting sustained momentum in home entertainment sales, most notably from and . Several TCFTV shows have increased their ratings year on year and continue to perform well including and.
Family Guy
24
24
Reba
 
TELEVISION
 
The Television segment reported third quarter operating income of $221 million, a decrease of $39 million versus the same period a year ago, primarily reflecting higher contributions from STAR and Fox Television Stations which were more than offset by a decline at the FOX Broadcasting Company (FBC).
 
Fox Television Stations' (FTS) third quarter operating income was up 6% over prior year, despite softness in the overall advertising market and the negative impact of local people meters, as FTS achieved record market share primarily due to FBC's airing of Super Bowl XXXIX and the Daytona 500 as well as from primetime ratings strength led by . Current-year growth also reflects a decrease in entertainment programming costs as a result of lower costing syndicated programming which more than offset the expansion of local news in several FTS markets.
American Idol
 
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, third quarter operating results decreased compared to a year ago as increased advertising revenues from higher pricing for the primetime entertainment schedule as well as additional revenues from airing Super Bowl XXXIX were more than offset by increased programming costs. The higher programming costs were a result of the Super Bowl broadcast as well as increased license fees on returning programs and several new series cancellations. Ratings during the quarter grew 11% and included FBC's first place finish during the February sweeps, led by the growth of returning series and as well as strong ratings from the new hit series .
American Idol
24
House
 
STAR's third quarter operating income increased more than 60%, as advertising and subscription revenue gains drove total revenue up 10%. Higher revenues primarily reflect the continued strength of STAR Plus, as well as contributions from several new channels in India, including STAR One, another Hindi entertainment channel.
 
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
 
Cable Network Programming reported third quarter operating income of $172 million, an increase of $61 million over last year's result. The 55% growth reflects continued advertising and affiliate strength at Fox News Channel and FX, the lack of NHL programming costs at the Regional Sports Networks due to the cancellation of the season and the absence of losses from the Los Angeles Dodgers which was sold during fiscal 2004.
 
 
Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 45% compared to the third quarter a year ago fueled primarily by double-digit advertising revenue growth which was partially offset by higher costs associated with covering international breaking news stories. Viewership during the quarter was up 15% in primetime and 5% on a 24-hour basis and for the fourth consecutive quarter FNC had more total viewers than CNN, MSNBC, Headline News and CNBC combined.
 
At our other cable channels (including the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs), the FX Channel (FX) and SPEED Channel) operating profit improved 44% during the quarter driven by double-digit revenue growth at FX and SPEED Channel and lower sports costs at the RSNs as a result of the NHL lockout. The revenue gains at FX were driven primarily by higher advertising from ratings growth and increased pricing, as well as higher affiliate revenues from increased rates and additional subscribers. These revenue gains were partially offset by higher programming costs primarily from additional airings of original hit series and as well as the addition of new syndicated series. Following the quarter, fourth season delivered the highest premiere of any cable series, season-to-date on either basic or payTV, with household ratings up 37% over prior year.
Nip/Tuck
Rescue Me
The Shield's
 
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
 
SKY Italia reported a third quarter operating loss of $21 million versus $24 million a year ago on local currency revenue growth of 20%. The improvement versus the prior year primarily reflects strong subscriber additions over the past year with more than 136,000 net new subscribers added during the third quarter alone. SKY Italia's subscriber base exceeded 3.2 million at quarter end. The revenue growth was mostly offset by increased programming spending during the quarter primarily due to the broadcast of additional soccer matches and movie titles as well as the addition of ten new entertainment and news channels on the basic programming tier.
 
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
 
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported third quarter operating income of $79 million versus $84 million in the third quarter a year ago. Increased contributions from the InStore division on higher advertising revenues were more than offset by declines at the Free Standing Inserts division primarily from lower rates.
 
NEWSPAPERS
 
The Newspaper segment reported third quarter operating income of $186 million, a 6% increase versus the same period a year ago primarily reflecting advertising revenue growth in Australia and the inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group which was fully consolidated for this quarter.
 
The Australian newspaper group reported a 67% increase in operating income in local currency terms, primarily driven by a robust advertising market and the inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group. Advertising revenue growth was spread
 
 
across display advertising, with sustained strength in the national and retail sectors, as well as classified advertising, where the employment market continued its robust growth.
 
The U.K. newspaper group reported an operating income decline of 26% in local currency terms as circulation revenue gains were more than offset by significantly increased depreciation costs associated with the development of new printing operations. Circulation revenue growth was led by increased sales from moving fully to a compact version of as well as an increased cover price at .
The
Times
The News of the World
 
BOOK PUBLISHING
 
HarperCollins reported operating income of $30 million during the quarter versus $36 million reported in the same period a year ago which included strong sales of Zondervan's . Current quarter results included strong sales of Lemony Snicket's , by Jack Welch and by Amber Frey. During the third quarter, HarperCollins had 38 books on The New York Times bestseller list including five titles that reached number one.
The Purpose Driven Life
A Series of Unfortunate Events
Winning
Witness
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
On March 21, 2005 the Company completed its previously announced acquisition of the 17.9% interest in Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. (FEG) that the Company did not own. Under the terms of the exchange offer and subsequent merger of FEG into the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, holders of Fox Class A Common Stock received 2.04 shares of the Company's Class A Shares.
 
Following the quarter, the Company, along with Cablevision Systems Corporation, completed its previously announced agreement to restructure its ownership of six regional sports networks held in the jointly owned Regional Programming Partners venture. As a result of this transaction, the Company now owns 100% of Fox Sports Ohio, Fox Sports Florida, Fox Sports Net and National Advertising Partners and no longer has an ownership interest in Madison Square Garden and its properties, Fox Sports Chicago and Fox Sports New England. During the March quarter, the Company recognized a loss of approximately $77 million on this transaction which is included in Other, net.
 
 
REVIEW OF ASSOCIATED ENTITIES RESULTS
 
Third quarter net earnings from associated entities were $91 million versus earnings of $71 million in the same period a year ago. The improvement was primarily due to increased contributions from BSkyB partly offset by higher losses at The DIRECTV Group.
 
The Company's share of associated entities' earnings (losses) is as follows:
 
 
Further details on the associated entities follow.
 
 
 
 
BSkyB (in STG and UK GAAP)
(1)
 
 
 
 
Sky Brasil (in US$)
 
 
Innova (in US$)
(1)
 
 
 
FOXTEL (in A$ and Australian GAAP)
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
 
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date profit results are as follows:
 
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com
 
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the third quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 5:00 PM. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
 
 
 
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1 - SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA
 
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis as the Company will not be required to present the two class method beginning in Fiscal 2008. Currently under US GAAP earnings per share is computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 2 - OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
 
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
 
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


