FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20060208161253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
On February 8, 2006, News Corporation released its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2005. A copy of News Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: February 8, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported second quarter income from continuing operations of $694 million, ($0.21 per share on a diluted combined basis
NEW YORK, NY, February 8, 2006 
1
), as compared with $386 million ($0.13 per share on a diluted combined basis
1
) reported in the second quarter a year ago. These results primarily reflect an increase in equity earnings of affiliates and increased Other income from the unrealized change in fair value of certain outstanding exchangeable debt securities partially offset by a decrease in consolidated operating income.
 
Consolidated operating income for the second quarter of $920 million was down 4% versus the $954 million reported a year ago, primarily as a result of a $99 million redundancy provision recorded this quarter in connection with the U.K. newspaper printing project, as well as a reduction from the record Filmed Entertainment operating income reported in the second quarter a year ago. These items more than offset double-digit improvements from the Television, Cable Network Programming, Direct Broadcast Satellite and Book Publishing segments.
 
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
 
"Our performance this quarter reflects the sustained momentum we have generated across the majority of our businesses. We translated the desirable audiences we deliver for advertisers into double-digit earnings gains at our Television and Cable Network Programming segments. We drastically lowered SKY Italia's operating loss, keeping it on track to deliver its first full year of profitability. And, while we faced comparisons to a record quarter year ago at our film studio, we released a number of successful films this quarter each of which should generate strong returns later this fiscal year when distributed in home entertainment.
 
"We also hit the ground running with our recent new media investments, expanding the number of registered users of MySpace to over 50 million and positioning us to capitalize on the expanding on-line advertising pie as broadband continues to proliferate. Additionally, we are spending considerable time exploring ways to increase the value of our vast content libraries, such as our recently announced deal between FX, the FOX network and DIRECTV for on-demand content. The sustained financial success we have achieved over the last several years provides us the flexibility to invest in these new business opportunities while at the same time delivering continued fiscal year growth to our shareholders."
 
Consolidated Operating Income
 
 
 
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
 
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
 
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported second quarter operating income of $299 million versus the $407 million reported in the same period a year ago. The year on year decline is primarily due to difficult comparisons with record second quarter results a year ago, led by the worldwide home entertainment performances of , and as well as from the catalog performance of . The current-year results primarily reflect several successful film and television home entertainment releases, as well as increased revenues from the worldwide theatrical and pay-TV markets.
Day After Tomorrow, Garfield
Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story
I, Robot,
The Star Wars Trilogy
 
Second quarter film results were largely driven by the worldwide home entertainment performances of , and , as well as by contributions from various catalog titles including and . Additionally, the pay-TV availability of and contributed to the strong quarterly results. The current quarter also included launch costs for several successful theatrical releases including 2, , and, which has grossed over $110 million in domestic box office and won three Golden Globes including Best Picture, Best Actor and Best Actress  Comedy or Musical.
Fantastic Four
Kingdom of Heaven, Star Wars Episode III
Mr. & Mrs. Smith
Napoleon Dynamite
Day After Tomorrow
Sideways
I, Robot
Cheaper By the Dozen
The Family Stone
The Ringer
Walk the Line
 
Twentieth Century Fox Television (TCFTV) increased contributions versus the second quarter a year ago, primarily reflecting continued momentum in home entertainment sales, most notably from and . Several TCFTV shows garnered Golden Globe nominations including Best Television Series  Musical or Comedy for and Best Television Series  Drama for
Family Guy
24
My Name is Earl
Prison Break.
 
TELEVISION
 
The Television segment reported second quarter operating income of $183 million, an increase of $30 million, or 20%, versus the same period a year ago, primarily reflecting higher contributions from the FOX Broadcasting Company (FBC) and STAR which were partially offset by a decline at the FOX Television Stations.
 
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, second quarter operating results improved by $39 million compared to a year ago as entertainment ratings growth and increased pricing drove higher advertising revenues. Additionally, lower promotional costs versus the second quarter a year ago, due to the earlier launch of FBC's fall line-up, also contributed to the year on year growth. These gains were partially offset by increased programming costs for movies and returning series. Following the end of the quarter, the network further strengthened its schedule with the return of and , both of which premiered to higher ratings than a year ago and are winning their time slots among key demographics.
American Idol
24
 
Fox Television Stations' (FTS) second quarter operating income declined 3% from the same period a year ago, primarily as a result of higher programming costs from the continued expansion of local newscasts and higher promotion for the November sweeps period. Despite softness in the overall advertising market and lower political spending, revenues for the quarter were in-line with a year ago as FTS generated market share gains with a stronger primetime line-up and continued success in morning newscasts.
 
 
STAR's second quarter operating income increased 43% as advertising and subscription revenue growth, mainly from India, drove total revenues up nearly 30%. Advertising gains were led by weekend programming initiatives at STAR Plus and from the successful launch of STAR One, while subscription revenues increased on new channel offerings and higher pricing.
 
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
 
Cable Network Programming reported second quarter operating income of $262 million, an increase of $35 million over last year's result. The 15% growth primarily reflects advertising strength at the Fox News Channel and affiliate revenue growth at the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs).
 
The Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 24% compared to the second quarter a year ago primarily from higher advertising on increased pricing and volume. During the quarter viewership at FNC was more than double its nearest competitor in primetime and was over 80% higher on a 24 hour basis. It was also the sixth consecutive quarter FNC has had more total viewers than all other cable news networks combined.
 
At our other cable channels (including the RSNs, the FX Channel (FX) and SPEED Channel) operating profit increased 13% despite the positive impact in the second quarter a year ago from the NHL lockout. At the RSNs, revenue gains, primarily from increased affiliate rates and additional DBS subscribers, were partially offset by programming costs associated with broadcasting NHL games. Current quarter results also included higher revenues and costs associated with the consolidation of FSN Ohio, FSN Florida and National Sports Partners after acquiring a controlling stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. At FX, double-digit revenue growth in the quarter was driven by increased affiliate revenues from higher rates and additional subscribers, as well as by increased advertising revenues on ratings growth and higher pricing. These revenue gains were offset primarily by increased programming costs for returning series and , the highest rated series on basic cable among Adults 18-49, as well as by costs for several newly acquired series.
The Shield
Nip/Tuck
 
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
 
SKY Italia reported a second quarter operating loss of $53 million, an improvement of $52 million versus a loss of $105 million a year ago on local currency revenue growth of 14%. This improvement primarily reflects subscription revenue growth primarily from subscriber additions, with more than 496,000 net new subscribers added over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 3.6 million at quarter end. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming costs associated with the larger subscriber base as well as higher spending primarily due to the broadcast of additional movie titles and the addition of new entertainment channels on the basic programming tier.
 
 
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
 
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported second quarter operating income of $76 million, an increase of 4% versus the $73 million reported in the quarter a year ago. The growth was driven by higher contributions from the In-Store division due to increased demand for its advertising products, partially offset by continued lower pricing at the Free Standing Inserts division.
 
NEWSPAPERS
 
The Newspapers segment reported second quarter operating income of $69 million, a decrease of $115 million versus the same period a year ago. The inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group, which was acquired in November 2004, was more than offset by redundancy and depreciation costs associated with the development of new printing operations and lower advertising revenues in the UK.
 
The Australian newspaper group reported an increase in second quarter operating income in local currency terms versus fiscal 2005. The growth was primarily driven by the inclusion of results from the Queensland Press Group and slightly higher circulation revenue, which benefited from increased cover pricing.
 
The U.K. newspaper group reported an operating income decline in local currency terms in the second quarter as circulation revenue growth was more than offset by lower advertising revenues and by costs associated with the development of new printing operations. During the quarter, these costs primarily included the recording of a $99 million redundancy provision, reflected in Other operating charge, as well as higher depreciation. The circulation revenue gains were the result of increased cover prices across all major titles, as well as from increased circulation at and
The Times
The Sun.
 
BOOK PUBLISHING
 
HarperCollins reported record second quarter operating income of $77 million, an increase of $15 million versus the same period a year ago. The 24% year-on-year increase was driven by strong sales of series by C.S. Lewis, fueled by the worldwide motion picture release of in December. In addition, the General Books Group had continued strong sales in the quarter from such titles as by John Grogan, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner, by Michael Crichton, and by Dr. Mehmet Oz and Dr. Michael F. Roizen. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 43 books on The New York Times bestseller list, including five books that reached the #1 spot.
The Chronicles of Narnia
The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe
Marley & Me
Freakonomics
State of Fear
YOU: The Owner's Manual
 
 
OTHER ITEMS
 
On October 3, 2005, the Company announced the sale of its TSL Education LTD business for $395 million. As a result of this transaction, which was completed in October 2005, the Company recognized a gain of $381 million which is included in Gain on disposition of discontinued operations, net of tax.
 
On June 13, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, under which the Company is authorized to acquire up to an aggregate of $3 billion in the Company's Class A and Class B common stock. The program is expected to be completed within two years, but may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of February 8, 2006, the Company has purchased more than $1.6 billion of stock under the program.
 
A dividend of $0.06 per Class A share and a dividend of $0.05 per Class B share has been declared and is payable on April 19, 2006. The record date for determining dividend entitlements is March 15, 2006.
 
 
REVIEW OF EQUITY EARNINGS OF AFFILIATES' RESULTS
 
Second quarter net earnings from affiliates were $160 million versus $48 million in the same period a year ago. The improvement was primarily due to increased contributions from The DIRECTV Group and BSkyB as a result of higher DTH subscribers and increased pricing, partially offset by the unfavorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations at Sky Brasil.
 
The Company's share of equity earnings (losses) of affiliates is as follows:
 
 
Further details on the certain affiliated entities follow.
 
 
 
BSkyB (in STG and IFRS)
(1)
 
 
The DIRECTV Group, Inc.
(1)
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
 
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date results are as follows:
 
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com
 
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the second quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:45 PM. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
 
 
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
NOTE 1 - SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA
 
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis as the Company will not be required to present the two class method beginning in Fiscal 2008. Currently under US GAAP, earnings per share is computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 2 - OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
 
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
 
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 


