FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20060626171150.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On June 20, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of News Corporation (the "Company"), based on a recommendation made by the Compensation Committee, approved an increase in compensation payable to non-executive directors (the "Non-Executive Directors") serving on the Board.   
The Board authorized an increase in the portion of the annual retainer invested in Class A common stock of the Company through a deferred stock unit account from $85,000 to $100,000. The deferred stock units will continue to be paid to the Non-Executive Directors in cash on the fifth anniversary date of when it was credited to the Non-Executive Directors' account, unless such director leaves the Board before such date. As a result of this change, the annual retainer paid to Non-Executive Directors will increase from $170,000 per year to $185,000 per year. Other fees paid for service on a committee of the Board remain unchanged. The increase will become effective on July 1, 2006.
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On June 20, 2006, the Board, based on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Commitee, appointed Jose Maria Aznar, former President of Spain, to serve as a director on the Board.   
Since September 1, 2004, Famaztella S.L. ("Famaztella"), a private consulting firm affiliated with Mr. Aznar, provided advisory services to the Company related to its global corporate strategy and received 10,000 Euros per month for its services. The consultancy agreement between Famaztella and the Company was terminated immediately preceding Mr. Aznar's appointment to the Board.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Aznar and any other persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director of the Company. Mr. Aznar has not been appointed to any committee of the Board.
The press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Aznar to the Board, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
                
Exhibit
Number                   Description
____________________________________________________
10.1               Non-Executive Director Compensation Summary Sheet.
99.1               Press release of News Corporation, dated June 21, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Cash (annual amount in US$)
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Corporation
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release
Contact: Media: Andrew Butcher 212-852-7070
Investors: Reed Nolte 212-852-7092
News Corporation Appoints Jos Mara Aznar To Board Of Directors
News Corporation today announced that Jos Mara Aznar, former President of Spain, has been appointed to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Aznar's appointment is effective immediately. The addition of Mr. Aznar increases the number of directors to 14.
LONDON, ENGLAND, June 21, 2006 --
Announcing the appointment of Mr. Aznar, News Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said: "As President of Spain, Mr. Aznar earned worldwide respect for his strong economic record and unflinching stand against domestic and international terrorism. His impressive grasp of world politics and the realities of globalization, as well as his clear commitment to fiscal rectitude, will be of great benefit to News Corporation's stockholders."
Mr. Aznar, 53, became President of the Spanish Government (Prime Minister) in 1996, following the electoral success of the Partido Popular. Following the party's repeated success at the polls in the year 2000, this time obtaining an absolute majority, Mr. Aznar was re-elected. He held the presidency until the elections of 2004, at which time he voluntarily stood down in favor of a new candidate.
Throughout his time as President, he led a significant process of economic and social reform. Thanks to his liberalization and competition policies, budget control, rational public spending and tax cuts, almost five million new jobs were created in Spain. Spanish GDP increased a cumulative 64 percent over eight years. Throughout this time, the country advanced from 78 percent to 87 percent of the EU average income. The public deficit was reduced from 6 percent of GDP until the budget was balanced in the year 2002. Furthermore, during Mr. Aznar's time as President, Spain enjoyed its first two reductions in income tax since the advent of democracy.
One of Mr. Aznar's main concerns is the battle against terrorism. He is in favor of a firm policy, contrary to any kind of political concession, as well as the idea of fostering close international cooperation among the democratic countries. He is a firm supporter of Spain's close relationship with the United States and of the European Union's commitment to promoting greater freedom and economic reforms.
He is the President of FAES (Foundation for Social Studies and Analysis). He is also a Distinguished Scholar at Georgetown University, where he teaches various seminars on contemporary European politics at the Edmund A. Walsh School. He is the Honorific President of the Partido Popular, party in which he held the Executive Presidency between 1990 and 2004. He has also been a member of The State Council since 2005.
Aznar has written several books, including: ("Freedom and Solidarity") (1991), (1994) ("Spain: The Second Transition"), (1995) ("The Spain I Believe In"), (2004) ("Eight Years of Government") and (2005) ("Portraits and Profiles: from Fraga to Bush")
Libertad y Solidaridad
Espaa: la segunda transicin
La Espaa en que yo creo
Ocho aos de Gobierno
Retratos y Perfiles: de Fraga a Bush
He is married to Ana Botella and has three children and two grandsons.
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of March 31, 2006 of approximately US$55 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$25 billion. News Corporation is a diversified international media and entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
For more information about News Corporation, please visit www.newscorp.com.


