FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20060419162659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
On April 13, 2006, News Corporation (the "Company") announced that it had settled a lawsuit regarding its stockholder rights plan captioned Unisuper et al. v. News Corp., C.A. No. 1699-N. The announcement explained that the settlement agreement (the "Stipulation of Settlement") between the Company and the Plaintiffs was subject to approval by the Delaware Court of Chancery.
On April 18, 2006, the Delaware Court of Chancery entered a scheduling order (the "Scheduling Order") (i) preliminarily approving the lawsuit as a class action on behalf of the class of Plaintiffs (the "Class") set forth in the Stipulation of Settlement and (ii) setting the date for a hearing for the purposes of: (a) determining whether the action should be certified as a class action, (b) determining whether the terms of the proposed settlement are fair, reasonable and in the best interests of the Class, and (c) considering the application of Plaintiffs' counsel for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses.
The Class is defined in the Scheduling Order as "all persons or entities who owned shares of any class of News Corp. common stock at any time, as well as all persons or entities who owned shares of stock in TNCL (including ordinary shares and/or preferred limited voting shares) at any time from September 30, 2004 to November 12, 2004, either of record or beneficially, including any and all of their respective successors-in-interest, predecessors, representatives, trustees, executors, administrators, heirs, assigns or transferees, immediate and remote, and any person or entity acting for or on behalf of, or claiming under, any of them, and each of them."
The settlement hearing, according to the Scheduling Order, shall be held on Tuesday, May 23, 2006, at 10:00 a.m., in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, in and for Sussex County, in the Court of Chancery Courthouse, 34 The Circle, Georgetown, DE 19947. Any member of the Class who desires to do so may appear personally or by counsel, provided that an appearance is fil ed and served (in accordance with the requirements set forth in the Scheduling Order), and show cause, if any, (i) why the settlement should not be approved as fair, reasonable, and in the best interests of the Class; (ii) why the Court should not dismiss with prejudice Plaintiffs' claims asserted against all of the defendants on the merits; (ii) or why the Court should not grant an allowance of fees and expenses to Plaintiffs' counsel for their services and expenses incurred.
A copy of the Scheduling Order is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report, and is incorporated herein by reference. The Scheduling Order, as well as the entire Stipulation of Settlement, also can be found on News Corp.'s web site at www.newscorp.com.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
                
Exhibit
Number             Description
99.1                Scheduling Order, dated April 18, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The parties having made application, pursuant to Court of Chancery Rule 23, for an Order approving the settlement (the "Settlement") of the above action (the "Action") in accordance with a Stipulation of Settlement dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "Stipulation"), which is incorporated herein by reference and which, together with the accompanying documents, sets forth the terms and conditions for the proposed Settlement of the Action and for a judgment dismissing Plaintiffs' claims in the Action with prejudice upon the terms and conditions set forth therein; and the Court having read and considered the Stipulation and the accompanying documents; and all parties having consented to the entry of this Order;
this 18 day of April, 2006 that:
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED
1. Preliminarily for purposes of this Order, the Action shall be maintained and proceed as a class action pursuant to Court of Chancery Rules 23(a), 23(b)(1) and 23(b)(2), without opt-out rights, by the Plaintiffs in the Action (the "Plaintiffs") on behalf of all persons or entities who owned shares of any class of News Corp. common stock at any time, as well as all persons or entities who owned shares of stock in TNCL (including ordinary shares and/or preferred limited voting shares) at any time from September 30, 2004 to November 12, 2004, either of record or beneficially, including any and all of their respective successors-in-interest, predecessors, representatives, trustees, executors, administrators, heirs, assigns or transferees, immediate and remote, and any person or entity acting for or on behalf of, or claiming under, any of them, and each of them (the "Class").
2. A hearing (the "Hearing") shall be held before the Court on Tuesday, May 23, at 10:00 a.m. in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, in and for Sussex County, in the Court of Chancery Courthouse, 34 The Circle, Georgetown, DE 19947, for the purposes of: (a) determining whether the proposed Settlement of the Action on the terms and conditions provided for in the Stipulation is fair, reasonable, adequate and in the best interests of the Class and should be approved by the Court, and whether the Order and Final Judgment provided for in the Stipulation should be entered thereon; (b) determining whether the Action should be certified as a class action; (c) considering the application of Plaintiffs' counsel for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses to be paid by News Corp. or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries; and (d) ruling on such other matters as the Court may deem appropriate. The Court may adjourn the Hearing (including consideration of the application of Pl aintiffs' counsel for an award of attorneys' fees and expenses) or any adjournment thereof without further notice to the Class other than by announcement at the Hearing or any adjournment thereof.
3. The Court finds that the manner and form of notice set forth in subparagraphs 3(a) and 3(b) of this Order, meets the requirements of Court of Chancery Rule 23 and due process, is the best notice practicable under the circumstances, and shall constitute due and sufficient notice to all persons entitled thereto.
(a) News Corp. shall provide notice of the Settlement to the members of the Class by means of (1) a press release to be agreed upon by the parties substantially in the form attached as to the Stipulation, which together with the Stipulation shall be made available on News Corp.'s website until the Settlement has been approved by the Court, and (2) a Form 8-K filing with the Securities & Exchange Commission. News Corp. will pay the entire cost and expense related to the provision of such notice to the Class.
Exhibit B
(b) At or before the Hearing provided for in paragraph 2 of this Order, News Corp. shall file proof, by affidavit, that such notice provided for in paragraph 3(a) occurred.
4. At the Hearing, any member of the Class who desires to do so may appear personally or by counsel, provided that an appearance is filed and served, as hereinafter provided, and show cause, if any, why the Settlement of Plaintiffs' claims in the Action should not be approved as fair, reasonable, adequate, and in the best interests of the Class; why the Order and Final Judgment should not be entered dismissing with prejudice Plaintiffs' claims asserted against all of the Defendants on the merits and with prejudice against the Plaintiffs and the Class, as determined by the Court; or why the Court should not grant an allowance of fees and expenses to Plaintiffs' counsel for their services herein and expenses incurred; provided, however, that no member of the Class or any other person opposing the Settlement or any provision thereof shall be heard or entitled to contest the approval of the terms and conditions of the Settlement and, if approved, the Order and Final Judgment to be entered thereon and t he allowance of fees and expenses to Plaintiffs' counsel, and no papers or briefs submitted by any member of the Class or any other person shall be received and considered, except by Order of the Court for good cause shown, unless, no later than ten (10) calendar days prior to the Hearing, copies of: (a) a notice of intention to appear; (b) a detailed statement of such person's specific objections to any matter before the Court; (c) proof that the person opposing the Settlement was a member of the Class; (d) the grounds for such objections and any reasons for the Class member's desiring to appear and to be heard; and (e) all documents and writings such person desires this Court to consider, shall be served upon the following counsel:
Stuart M. Grant, Esquire GRANT & EISENHOFER, P.A. Chase Manhattan Centre 1201 North Market Street Wilmington, DE 19801 Edward P. Welch, Esquire SKADDEN, ARPS, SLATE, MEAGHER & FLOM LLP One Rodney Square Post Office Box 636 Wilmington, DE 19899-0636
and then filed with the Register in Chancery at the New Castle County Courthouse. Unless the Court otherwise directs, no member of the Class shall be entitled to object to the Settlement, or to the Order and Final Judgment to be entered herein, or to the award of attorneys' fees and expenses to Plaintiffs' counsel, or otherwise to be heard, except by serving and filing written objections as described above. Any person who fails to object in the manner provided above shall be deemed to have waived such objection and shall forever be barred from making any such objection in this Action or in any other action or proceeding.
5. Following the Hearing, if the Court approves the Settlement provided for in the Stipulation, judgment shall be entered substantially in the form attached as (the "Order and Final Judgment") to the Stipulation.
Exhibit C
6. In the event that: (i) the Court declines, in any respect (except for a modification of the proposed Class definition or of the releases provided for in the Stipulation which is not material), to enter the Order and Final Judgment provided for above and any one of the parties hereto fails to consent to the entry of another form of order in lieu thereof; (ii) the Court disapproves the Settlement, including any amendments thereto agreed upon by all of the parties; or (iii) the Court approves the Settlement or any amendment thereto approved by all of the parties, but such approval is reversed or substantially modified on appeal without all parties consenting to such modification and such reversal or modification becomes final by a lapse of time or otherwise; then, in any of such events, the Stipulation, the Settlement (including any amendments hereof), any actions taken or to be taken with respect to the Settlement, and the Order and Final Judgment to be entered shall be of no further force or effe ct and shall be null and void, and without prejudice to any of the parties hereto, who shall be restored in all respects to their respective positions existing prior to the execution of the Stipulation. For purposes of this provision, a disallowance or modification by the Court of the fees and expenses sought by plaintiffs' counsel shall not be deemed an amendment, modification or disapproval of the Settlement or the Order and Final Judgment.
7. The Court reserves the right to approve the Stipulation and the Settlement with modifications and without further notice to members of the Class, and retains jurisdiction over this Action to consider all further applications arising out of or connected with the proposed Settlement.
8. Pending final determination of whether the Settlement should be approved, Plaintiffs and all members of the Class, and any of them, are hereby barred and enjoined from asserting, commencing, prosecuting, assisting, instigating or in any way participating in the commencement or prosecution of any action asserting any Settled Claims, either directly, representatively, derivatively or in any other capacity.
Chancellor
/s/ William B. Chandler III
 


