FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20060510161019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On May 10, 2006, News Corporation (the "Company") released its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On May 10, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved an extension of its current $3 billion stock repurchase program to $6 billion. The Company is authorized to acquire from time to time the additional $3 billion of Class A common stock and Class B common stock over the next two years.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the increase in its stock repurchase program is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 10, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported third quarter operating income of $1.0 billion, an increase of 14% over the $889 million a year ago on revenues of $6.2 billion, up $155 million from the $6.0 billion reported in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. The year-on-year operating income growth was primarily driven by double-digit percentage increases at the Television, Cable Network Programming and Magazines and Inserts segments, as well as by a $90 million improvement at SKY Italia.
NEW YORK, NY, May 10, 2006 
Third quarter net income of $820 million ($0.26 per share on a diluted combined basis
1
) more than doubled from the $400 million ($0.13 per share on a diluted combined basis
1
) reported in the third quarter a year ago. These results primarily reflect the increased consolidated operating income, higher equity earnings of affiliates and increased Other income, reflecting a gain on the sale of Innova partially offset by the unrealized charge for the fair value of certain outstanding exchangeable debt securities.
 
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"We are obviously pleased with the 14% operating income growth and two-fold increase in net income we delivered this quarter. Our growth was as diverse as it was deep: continued subscriber expansion at SKY Italia; ratings success at our broadcast network; sustained momentum across our array of cable channels; and a dramatic increase in equity earnings from DIRECTV.
"This quarter also saw accelerated progress in our new media evolution. MySpace expanded to over 70 million registered users, solidifying its prominence as one of the fastest growing sites on the Internet. We also launched Mobizzo, a comprehensive new destination for mobile content, putting us in the vanguard of this exploding new platform. And we reached agreement with our broadcast affiliates on repurposing network content, thus allowing us to aggressively develop new ways of distributing and monetizing our programming across the full range of new media platforms.
"At the same time, as we invest in these new opportunities, our strong balance sheet has enabled us to continue aggressively with our stock repurchase program. We have completed close to $2.5 billion of the original $3.0 billion buyback program we initiated last June, and today we announced that the Board of Directors has approved an increase in the stock buyback program to $6.0 billion. This $3.0 billion step up clearly reinforces our view that repurchases of News Corporation shares are among the best uses of our cash in today's environment."
Consolidated Operating Income
 
 
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported third quarter operating income of $225 million versus the $251 million reported in the same period a year ago. The year on year decline is primarily due to comparisons with record results a year ago led by the home entertainment performances of and. The current-year results primarily reflect several successful film and television home entertainment releases, as well as increased contributions from the worldwide theatrical and pay-TV markets.
Alien vs. Predator, Napoleon Dynamite
I, Robot
Third quarter film results were largely driven by the domestic home entertainment performances of and and by the continued success of in the international home entertainment market. Additionally, the pay-TV availability of and contributed to the strong quarterly results. The current quarter also included release costs for several successful theatrical releases including , and the phenomenal success of , which was released on March 31
Walk the Line
Transporter 2
Fantastic Four
Hide and Seek
Because of Winn Dixie
Big Momma's House 2
The Hills Have Eyes
Ice Age 2: The Meltdown
st
and has grossed over $590 million in worldwide box office to date.
Twentieth Century Fox Television (TCFTV) had increased contributions versus the third quarter a year ago, primarily reflecting continued momentum in home entertainment sales, most notably from and . Several of TCFTV's new shows this broadcast season are delivering strong ratings including the number one new comedy, , and the top two new dramas, and
Family Guy
24
My Name is Earl
The Unit
Prison Break.
TELEVISION
The Television segment reported third quarter operating income of $286 million, an increase of $65 million, or 29%, versus the same period a year ago, primarily reflecting higher contributions from the FOX Broadcasting Company and STAR.
At the FOX Broadcasting Company (FBC), third quarter operating results were solidly profitable versus a loss a year ago as ratings momentum and higher pricing drove primetime advertising revenue growth. The higher primetime advertising revenues in the current year were partially offset by increased programming costs for several returning series including and , which, along with , fueled ratings growth of 17% among Adults 18-49 for the quarter. Additionally, the third quarter a year ago included a loss associated with the broadcast of Super Bowl XXXIX.
American Idol
24
House
Fox Television Stations' (FTS) third quarter operating income declined only 4% despite the benefit a year ago from FBC's broadcast of Super Bowl XXXIX. Primetime ratings strength and the continued success of local news drove advertising revenue growth which was partially offset by increased local sports rights and the further expansion of local newscasts.
 
 
STAR's third quarter operating income increased 28% as advertising revenue growth, mainly from India, drove total revenues up 14%. Advertising gains were led by weekend programming initiatives at STAR Plus and by the growth of STAR One and STAR Gold.
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Cable Network Programming reported third quarter operating income of $211 million, an increase of $39 million over last year's result. The 23% growth primarily reflects advertising strength at the Fox News Channel and affiliate revenue growth at the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs).
The Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 24% compared to the third quarter a year ago, primarily from higher advertising on increased pricing and volume. During the quarter, viewership at FNC was nearly double its nearest competitor in primetime and was over 80% higher on a 24-hour basis reflecting FNC broadcasting the top five shows in cable news.
At our other cable channels (including the RSNs, the FX Channel (FX) and SPEED Channel) operating profit increased 25% from last year's third quarter results. Revenue gains at the RSNs, primarily from increased affiliate rates and additional DBS subscribers, were partially offset by programming costs associated with broadcasting NHL games. Current quarter results also included higher revenues and costs associated with the consolidation of FSN Ohio, FSN Florida and National Sports Partners after acquiring a controlling stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. At FX, double-digit revenue growth in the quarter was driven by increased affiliate revenues from higher rates and additional subscribers, as well as by increased advertising revenues on ratings growth and higher pricing. These revenue gains were more than offset by increased programming costs for returning series, as well as promotional and programming spending for several new original series, including which had the most watched premiere of any original basic cable series this season. FX's investment in programming has translated into significant ratings momentum with primetime ratings up 31% among Adults 18-49 during the third quarter.
Black/White
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
SKY Italia reported third quarter operating income of $69 million, an improvement of $90 million compared to a year ago on local currency revenue growth of 17%. This improvement primarily reflects the addition of 472,000 net new subscribers over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 3.71 million at quarter-end. The related revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming costs associated with the larger subscriber base, as well as higher spending primarily due to the broadcast of additional movie titles and new entertainment channels on the basic programming tier.
 
 
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported third quarter operating income of $90 million, an increase of 14% versus the $79 million reported in the quarter a year ago. The growth was driven by higher revenues due to increased demand for in-store marketing products, partially offset by lower revenue rates from the publication of free standing inserts.
NEWSPAPERS
The Newspapers segment reported third quarter operating income of $153 million, a decrease of $33 million from last year's results primarily reflecting lower contributions from the U.K. newspaper group.
While the U.K. newspaper group reported an operating income decline in local currency terms in the third quarter, this was principally the result of the absence of operating income from the TSL Education business and costs associated with the launch of a consumer magazine division. Without these factors, results were in-line with a year ago, as double-digit circulation revenue growth was offset by a slight reduction in advertising revenues. The circulation revenue gains were the result of increased cover prices across all major titles, with particular revenue growth at , and.
The Sun
The Sunday Times
The Times
The Australian newspaper group reported third quarter operating income in-line with a year ago in local currency terms as display and classified advertising growth was offset by higher editorial and production costs. Display advertising experienced gains in the national and property sectors, while classified revenues were led by strength in the employment market. Circulation revenues also increased slightly during the quarter mainly from higher cover pricing at the major weekend newspapers.
BOOK PUBLISHING
HarperCollins reported third quarter operating income of $26 million, a decrease of $4 million versus the same period a year ago. The prior year included robust sales of and Lemony Snicket's , as well as strong contributions from by Jack Welch and Suzy Welch and Jose Canseco's . The current quarter results included continued strong sales of by John Grogan and by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner, as well as the release of by Dr. Laura. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 36 books on The New York Times bestseller list, including four books that reached the #1 spot.
The Purpose Driven Life
A Series of Unfortunate Events
Winning
Juiced
Marley & Me
Freakonomics
Bad Childhood-Good Life
OTHER ITEMS
In February 2006 the Company completed its previously announced sale of its investment in Innova, a Mexican DTH platform, to DIRECTV for $285 million. As a result
 
 
of this transaction the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $206 million, which is included in Other, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
On June 13, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, under which the Company was authorized to acquire up to an aggregate of $3.0 billion in the Company's Class A and Class B common stock. Today, the Board authorized an increase of that $3.0 billion buyback to $6.0 billion. As of May 10, 2006, the Company has purchased nearly $2.5 billion of stock under the program. The remaining repurchases are expected to be completed within the next two years, but may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
REVIEW OF EQUITY EARNINGS OF AFFILIATES' RESULTS
Third quarter net earnings from affiliates were $264 million versus $91 million in the same period a year ago. The $173 million improvement was primarily due to an increased contribution from The DIRECTV Group on subscriber growth and increased pricing. The DIRECTV Group's results also reflect lower expenses associated with a new set-top receiver lease program. Additionally, the improved results include recognition of a tax benefit by Innova and a favorable impact from foreign currency fluctuations at Sky Brasil.
The Company's share of equity earnings (losses) of affiliates is as follows:
 
Further details on the certain affiliated entities follow.
 
 
 
 
 
BSkyB (in STG and IFRS)
(2)
 
 
The DIRECTV Group, Inc.
(2)
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp.'s corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com
Audio from News Corp.'s conference call with analysts on the third quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:30 PM. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
NOTE 1 - SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis as the Company will not be required to present the two class method beginning in Fiscal 2008. Currently under US GAAP, earnings per share is computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 2 - OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
News Corporation Announces Increase in Stock Repurchase Program to $6 Billion
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved an increase of its current $3 billion stock repurchase program to $6 billion. The Company is authorized to acquire from time to time the additional $3 billion of Class A common stock and Class B common stock over the next two years.
NEW YORK, NY, May 10, 2004 
News Corporation has already repurchased nearly $2.5 billion of stock under the program announced on June 13, 2005.
Repurchases under the program are made through open market transactions. The timing of such transactions and class of shares purchased depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
News Corporation had total assets as of March 31, 2006 of approximately US$55 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$25 billion. News Corporation is a diversified international media and entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This communication contains statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results or developments may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including financial community and rating agency perceptions of the company and its business, operations, financial condition and the industry in which it operates and the factors described in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the sections entitled "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained therein. The company disclaims any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein.
For more information about News Corporation, please visit www.newscorp.com.


