FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20071107161238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2007, News Corporation released its financial results for the three months ended September 30, 2007. A copy of News Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 7, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported first quarter consolidated operating income of $1.05 billion, up 23% as compared to the $851 million reported a year ago, primarily as a result of double-digit percentage increases at the Filmed Entertainment and Cable Network Programming segments and a $61 million improvement at the Direct Broadcast Satellite segment.
NEW YORK, NY, November 7, 2007 
First quarter net income of $732 million ($0.23 per share), decreased versus net income of $843 million ($0.27 per share on a diluted combined basis
(1)
) reported in the first quarter a year ago. The year-on-year decline primarily reflects increased consolidated operating income more than offset by a decrease in Other income, mainly from the prior year inclusion of gains on the sale of shares in Sky Brasil and Phoenix.
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"The strength of our financial results during the first quarter is yet another illustration of our ability to deliver sustained growth while concurrently investing in tomorrow's profit generators. The 19% revenue growth and 23% operating income growth in the quarter was achieved despite spending to expand our cable portfolio both domestically and internationally; despite continued investment in broadening our internet offerings; and despite additional costs associated with upgrading the color capacity at our newspaper group. We expect the development of these assets to drive future growth much as our investments in the Fox News Channel and SKY Italia have translated into strong profit growth today. The financial momentum at these businesses, along with the success of our theatrical slate in the quarter, has given us a great start to fiscal 2008 and we look forward to building upon the record results we delivered during fiscal 2007."
Consolidated Operating Income
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported first quarter operating income of $362 million as compared to $239 million reported in the same period a year ago. The 51% growth primarily reflects increased contributions from theatrical releases and the strong performance of television home entertainment titles.
Higher first quarter film results were largely driven by the theatrical success of which has grossed over $524 million in worldwide box office, and which has surpassed $375 million in worldwide box office. The quarter also included the continued worldwide home entertainment success of and as well as the pay-TV availability of .
The Simpsons Movie,
Live Free or Die Hard,
Eragon
Night at the Museum,
Little Miss Sunshine
 
 
Twentieth Century Fox Television reported increased contributions versus the first quarter a year ago, primarily reflecting continued momentum in home entertainment sales and international television, most notably from and .
Family Guy
Prison Break
TELEVISION
The Television segment reported first quarter operating income of $183 million, a decline of $9 million versus the same period a year ago as improved results from the FOX Broadcasting Company and STAR were offset by lower contributions from the Fox Television Stations and a full quarter of losses at MyNetworkTV, which was launched in September 2006.
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, first quarter operating results improved compared to a year ago as increased pricing drove higher advertising revenues. Additionally, lower primetime programming and promotional costs, due to the timing of the fall schedule launch, also contributed to the year-on-year growth.
Fox Television Stations' (FTS) first quarter operating income declined 9% from the same period a year ago as advertising strength associated with FOX primetime and the continued success of local news was more than offset by lower political advertising revenues and decreased advertising revenues at the MyNetwork affiliated stations.
STAR's first quarter operating income increased versus the same quarter a year ago as 22% revenue growth was driven by advertising and subscription revenue gains, primarily in India. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming costs from new program launches, most notably at STAR PLUS in India.
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Cable Network Programming reported first quarter operating income of $289 million, an increase of $40 million over the first quarter a year ago. The 16% growth reflects increased contributions from Fox News Channel, the Regional Sports Networks and the Fox International Channels, partially offset by launch costs associated with the Fox Business Network and the Big Ten Network.
The Fox News Channel (FNC) more than doubled its operating income versus the first quarter a year ago primarily from increased affiliate revenues on higher rates and advertising revenue growth from higher volume and pricing. During the quarter, viewership at FNC was more than 65% higher than its nearest competitor in primetime and more than 55% greater on a 24-hour basis, reflecting FNC broadcasting thirteen of the top 15 shows in cable news.
At our other cable channels, operating profit was in-line with the first quarter a year ago as increased contributions from the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs) and Fox International Channels were offset by launch costs for the Fox Business Network and the Big Ten Network, as well as lower contributions from FX. The growth at the RSNs was driven by affiliate revenue growth from increased rates and additional subscribers, as well as from advertising revenue growth on higher rates. The revenue growth was
 
 
partially offset by higher programming costs from broadcasting additional major league baseball games and new rights deals. The increased contributions from the Fox International Channels were driven by continued growth in Latin America and Europe. Operating income at FX declined slightly during the quarter as increased affiliate and advertising revenues were more than offset by higher programming costs for movie product and promotional costs for new series.
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
SKY Italia reported first quarter operating income of $48 million, an improvement of $61 million versus a loss of $13 million a year ago on local currency revenue growth of 11%. This improvement primarily reflects subscriber additions, with 410,000 net new subscribers added over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 4.24 million at quarter end. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming spending associated with the larger subscriber base as well as costs associated with the launch of new channels.
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported first quarter operating income of $79 million, a slight increase versus the $78 million reported in the quarter a year ago. The growth was driven by higher revenues due to increased demand for in-store marketing products, partially offset by lower volume and revenue rates from free standing inserts.
NEWSPAPERS
The Newspapers segment reported first quarter operating income of $93 million, down $31 million from the $124 million reported in the same period a year ago, as increased depreciation associated with the development of new color printing operations in the U.K. more than offset increased contributions from Australia.
The U.K. newspaper group reported a decrease in operating income in local currency terms as compared with the first quarter a year ago primarily as a result of increased accelerated depreciation on the printing presses that will be replaced, sooner than anticipated, by the new color printing operations. During the quarter, circulation revenues were slightly above prior year while advertising revenues declined slightly.
The Australian newspaper group reported first quarter operating income growth versus the first quarter of fiscal 2007 in local currency terms on the strength of display and classified advertising revenues. Display advertising was led by the retail and real estate sectors while classified advertising experienced gains in the employment sector. Additionally, circulation revenues increased slightly during the quarter mainly from higher cover pricing at the major weekend newspapers.
 
 
BOOK PUBLISHING
HarperCollins reported first quarter operating income of $36 million, a decrease of $19 million versus the same period a year ago that included strong sales of Lemony Snicket's . Current quarter results were highlighted by strong sales of by Conn and Hal Iggulden, by Janet Evanovich, by Jenna Bush and by Jessica Seinfeld. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 51 books on bestseller list, including six books that reached the #1 spot.
A Series of Unfortunate Events
The Dangerous Book for Boys
Motor Mouth
Ana's Story
Deceptively Delicious
The New York Times
OTHER
The Other segment reported an operating loss of $43 million, a $30 million improvement versus the first quarter a year ago, primarily led by improved results at Fox Interactive Media (FIM), partially offset by startup losses at our Eastern European broadcasting initiatives. The operating income at FIM was driven by higher search revenues, primarily from the Google agreement which took effect in January 2007, and advertising revenue growth as a result of increased traffic, further inventory monetization and international expansion. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased costs associated with the larger audience, international expansion and new features.
OTHER ITEMS
In July 2007, the Company entered into a definitive merger agreement with Dow Jones & Company to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Dow Jones in a transaction valued at approximately $5.7 billion. Members of the Bancroft family and related trusts owning approximately 37% of Dow Jones voting stock have agreed to vote their shares in favor of the transaction. The transaction is subject to approval by the Dow Jones stockholders, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, and is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of calendar 2007. The Company has agreed, upon closing of the transaction, to appoint a member of the Bancroft family or another mutually acceptable person to the Company's Board of Directors.
 
 
REVIEW OF EQUITY EARNINGS OF AFFILIATES' RESULTS
First quarter net earnings of affiliates were $246 million versus $243 million in the same period a year ago. The improvement was primarily due to higher earnings at Gemstar-TV Guide International due to a reduced tax provision, partially offset by lower contributions from BSkyB and The DIRECTV Group. At BSkyB, the decline in equity earnings was primarily due to higher costs associated with the broadband offering, increased product upgrade volumes and increased sports rights. The decreased earnings from The DIRECTV Group reflect higher set-top box depreciation and product upgrade costs.
The Company's share of equity earnings of affiliates is as follows:
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date profit results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the first quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:45 p.m. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
NOTE 1 - SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA FOR FISCAL 2007
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis for fiscal 2007 as the Company was required to present the two-class method prior to fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2007, under U.S. GAAP, earnings per share was computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock for fiscal 2007. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
NOTE 2 - OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 


