FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20071227122316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On December 22, 2007, Fox Television Stations, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation ("News Corp"), and FoxCo Acquisition Sub, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Oak Hill Capital Partners III, L.P. ("Oak Hill Capital") entered into a Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"), pursuant to which News Corp agreed to sell eight of its owned-and-operated FOX network affiliated television stations (the "Stations") to Oak Hill Capital for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. The Stations include: WJW in Cleveland, OH; KDVR in Denver, CO; KTVI in St. Louis, MO; WDAF in Kansas City, MO; WITI in Milwaukee, WI; KSTU in Salt Lake City, UT; WBRC in Birmingham, AL; and WGHP in Greensboro, NC.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among other things, (a) regulatory approvals, (b) the receipt of the consent of the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") relating to the assignment or transfer of control of the television broadcasting licenses issued by the FCC for the Stations and (c) with regard to two of the Stations only, certain other actions by the FCC in connection with the digital television facilities for the two Stations. In the event that the closing condition described in (c) above is not satisfied or waived by Oak Hill Capital, the transaction shall be effected as a sale of six of the Stations excluding the stations described in (c) above at an adjusted price. The transaction is expected to be completed in the third calendar quarter of 2008.
A copy of News Corp's press release announcing the sale is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: December 27, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Corporation Announces Sale of Eight Television
Stations to Oak Hill Capital Partners
 
 News Corporation announced today that it will sell eight of its owned-and-operated FOX network affiliated television stations to Oak Hill Capital Partners for approximately $1.1 billion in cash.
NEW YORK, NY, December 22, 2007
The stations include:
The sale is subject to regulatory and other customary conditions and is expected to close in the third calendar quarter of 2008. News Corporation was advised by Allen & Company LLC and Hogan & Hartson in the transaction.
Following the sale of the eight stations to Oak Hill Capital Partners, Fox Television Stations will continue to be one of the nation's strongest and most successful station groups with 27 owned-and-operated stations, nine duopolies in major markets as well as single stations in nine mid- to large-sized markets. A full list of News Corporation's U.S. stations is available at
http://www.newscorp.com/operations/tvstations.html
(NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of September 30, 2007 of approximately US$64 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$30 billion. News Corporation is a diversified entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
News Corporation
 


