FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20070207073254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2007, News Corporation released its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. A copy of News Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 7, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported second quarter income from continuing operations of $822 million ($0.26 per share on a diluted combined basis
NEW YORK, NY, February 7, 2007 
1
), as compared with $694 million ($0.21 per share on a diluted combined basis
1
) reported in the second quarter a year ago. These results primarily reflect an increase in consolidated operating income and higher equity earnings of affiliates partially offset by an increased tax provision, the result of a prior year tax benefit from the application of the American Jobs Creation Act. Additionally, the current quarter included a decrease in Other income, primarily from the unrealized change in fair value of certain outstanding exchangeable debt securities.
Consolidated operating income for the second quarter of $1.1 billion was up 24% versus the $920 million reported a year ago, primarily driven by the record performance at Filmed Entertainment as well as improved results at the Cable Network Programming, Newspapers and Direct Broadcast Satellite segments. The prior year results included a $99 million redundancy provision recorded in connection with the U.K. newspaper printing project.
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"Our second fiscal quarter was a success both financially and strategically. Financially, we enjoyed double digit revenue and operating income growth, with a better than expected performance at our film studio and strong growth at SKY Italia, where subscriber additions reached the four million mark. The quarter was not without its challenges, however. In particular, we were disappointed with the results at MyNetworkTV, whose ratings have been far below expectations. We are focused on reversing this performance, and since quarter's end, have brought in new management and will introduce new programming to jump-start its recovery.
"Strategically, the quarter's highlight was our announced transaction with Liberty  a transaction we believe unlocks tremendous value for our shareholders. It will be immediately accretive on both a free cash flow and earnings per share basis, and it allows us to monetize our stake in DIRECTV at an attractive valuation, tax-free. It also represents a significant share buyback without paying a customary premium, while leaving us with a very strong balance sheet from which we can deliver additional value to our shareholders."
Consolidated Operating Income
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported record second quarter operating income of $470 million, an increase of $171 million versus the $299 million reported in the same period a year ago. The 57% growth primarily reflects increased contributions from several strong theatrical releases as well as higher contributions from film and television home entertainment releases.
 
 
Higher second quarter film results were driven by strong theatrical contributions from the launch of and the continued international success of Additionally, the home entertainment performances of theatrical hits and contributed to the strong quarterly results The second quarter also included launch costs for several additional successful theatrical releases including , which has grossed over $240 million in worldwide box office, and , which held the top spot in the domestic box office for three weeks and has grossed over $438 million in worldwide box office to date.
Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan
The Devil Wears Prada.
Ice Age: The Meltdown, X-Men: The Last Stand, Little Miss Sunshine
The Devil Wears Prada
Eragon
Night at the Museum
Twentieth Century Fox Television (TCFTV) increased contributions versus the second quarter a year ago, primarily reflecting continued momentum in home entertainment sales, most notably from and . Several TCFTV shows garnered Golden Globe nominations, including for Best Television Series  Drama and Best Actor in a Television Series  Drama, as well as for Best Actor in a Television Series  Musical or Comedy.
24
Prison Break
24
My Name is Earl
TELEVISION
The Television segment reported second quarter operating income of $112 million, a decline of $71 million versus the same period a year ago as increased contributions from the Fox Television Stations were more than offset by lower contributions from the FOX Broadcasting Company, STAR and by losses from the launch of MyNetworkTV.
Fox Television Stations' second quarter operating income increased 8% from the same period a year ago as advertising revenues expanded primarily on the strength of political spending. The increased political revenues were partially offset by lower revenues at the MyNetworkTV stations as well as by costs associated with the further expansion of local newscasts and spending on local station websites.
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, second quarter operating results declined by 36% compared to a year ago, primarily due to weak ratings for Major League Baseball's post-season and increased National Football League programming costs. In prime-time, a decline in ratings and cancellation costs for several new series was offset by lower programming costs. Following the end of the quarter, the network further strengthened its schedule with the return of and , both of which are delivering bigger audiences than a year ago.
American Idol
24
STAR's second quarter operating income decreased 36% from the same period a year ago as subscription revenue growth was more than offset by a decline in advertising revenue at STAR PLUS in India. The decrease in advertising revenue reflects last year's contributions from the highly successful broadcast of , India's version of , which did not begin broadcasting in the current year until January.
Kaun Banega Crorepati 2
Who Wants to Be a Millionaire
 
 
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Cable Network Programming reported second quarter operating income of $275 million, a $13 million increase over the second quarter a year ago, primarily reflecting increased contributions from the Fox News Channel.
Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 25% compared to the second quarter a year ago, primarily from higher affiliate revenues on increased rates and additional subscribers. During the quarter, viewership at FNC was more than 60% higher than its nearest competitor in primetime and was nearly 50% greater on a 24-hour basis, reflecting FNC broadcasting the top five shows in cable news.
Operating profit at our other cable channels (including the Regional Sports Networks, FX and SPEED) was in-line with the second quarter a year ago. At our sports networks, higher advertising and affiliate revenues were more than offset by increased programming and rights costs for additional professional and collegiate games as compared to the prior year. At FX, increased affiliate revenues in the quarter were driven by higher rates and additional subscribers, while increased advertising revenues were the result of higher volume on ratings strength, most notably from which delivered ratings growth in its third season. These revenue gains were mostly offset by increased marketing spending primarily for new original series , which premiered to strong ratings after the quarter.
Nip/Tuck
Dirt
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
SKY Italia reported a second quarter operating loss of $12 million, an improvement of $41 million versus a loss of $53 million a year ago on local currency revenue growth of 14%. This improvement primarily reflects subscriber additions, with more than 432,000 net subscribers added over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 4.03 million at quarter end. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming spending associated with the larger subscriber base as well as costs associated with broadcasting additional Series A and Series B soccer matches.
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported second quarter operating income of $74 million, slightly below the $76 million reported in the same quarter a year ago, primarily due to lower revenue rates for free-standing inserts partially offset by increased page volume and lower printing costs.
NEWSPAPERS
The Newspapers segment reported second quarter operating income of $170 million, an increase of $101 million versus the same period a year ago which included a $99 million redundancy provision associated with the development of new printing operations in the U.K.
 
 
The U.K. newspaper group, in addition to benefiting from the redundancy provision in the prior year, generated operating income growth in local currency terms primarily driven by increased advertising revenues on higher color volume at and The quarter also included slightly increased circulation revenues from higher cover prices at several titles as well as additional costs associated with the consumer magazine division and the launch of a free London newspaper.
The Sun
The Sunday Times.
The Australian newspaper group reported a slight second quarter operating income decline in local currency terms versus a year ago as circulation revenue growth on higher cover prices was more than offset by increased newsprint and production costs. Additionally, advertising revenues increased slightly with classified advertising experiencing strength in the employment sector and display advertising benefiting from a stronger retail market.
BOOK PUBLISHING
HarperCollins reported second quarter operating income of $54 million, a decrease of $23 million versus the same period a year ago which included strong sales from series by C.S. Lewis. The year on year decline also reflects charges in the current year due to the bankruptcy filing of a major distributor. Current quarter results were led by strong sales of new titles including Michael Crichton's , by Conn Iggulden and Lemony Snicket's , as well as continuing sales of by John Grogan and by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet Oz. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 39 books on bestseller list, including four books that reached the number one spot.
The Chronicles of Narnia
Next
The Dangerous Book for Boys
The End
Marley & Me
YOU: The Owners Manual
The New York Times
OTHER ITEMS
In December 2006, the Company announced that it had signed a share exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation under which Liberty will exchange its entire 16.3 percent economic position in News Corporation for the Company's entire interest in The DIRECTV Group, three Regional Sports Networks and $550 million of cash, subject to adjustment. The transaction will be immediately accretive to News Corporation's earnings per share and is subject to various regulatory approvals and an affirmative vote by a majority of holders of News Corporation's Class B common stock, other than the Murdoch family and Liberty. If approved, the transaction is expected to be completed in the second half of calendar 2007.
A dividend of $0.06 per Class A share and a dividend of $0.05 per Class B share has been declared and is payable on April 18, 2007. The record date for determining dividend entitlements is March 14, 2007.
 
 
REVIEW OF EQUITY EARNINGS OF AFFILIATES' RESULTS
Second quarter net earnings from affiliates were $249 million versus $160 million in the same period a year ago. The $89 million increase was primarily due to improved earnings from The DIRECTV Group resulting from subscriber growth and increased pricing, as well as lower expenses resulting from the set-top receiver lease program.
The Company's share of equity earnings (losses) of affiliates is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com.
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the second quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 8:30 A.M. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com.
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
NOTE 1 - SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis as the Company will not be required to present the two class method beginning in Fiscal 2008. Currently under US GAAP, earnings per share is computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 2 - OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 


