FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20080204160307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2008, News Corporation released its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2007. A copy of News Corporation's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 4, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported second quarter net income of $832 million ($0.27 per share), as compared with $822 million ($0.26 per share on a diluted combined basis) reported in the second quarter a year ago. These results primarily reflect an increase in consolidated operating income as well as an increase in Other, net, primarily from the unrealized change in fair value of certain outstanding exchangeable debt securities, partially offset by lower equity earnings of affiliates.
NEW YORK, NY, February 4, 2008 
1
Consolidated operating income for the second quarter of $1.4 billion was up 24% versus the $1.1 billion reported a year ago, primarily driven by double-digit percentage increases at nearly every operating segment and a $74 million improvement in the Direct Broadcast Satellite segment.
Second quarter net losses from affiliates were $50 million versus net earnings of $249 million in the same period a year ago. The $299 million decrease was primarily driven by lower contributions from BSkyB due to the write-down of its ITV investment.
 
 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"We are obviously proud of the results we delivered during the second quarter, the highest operating income quarter in our history, but most important is the balanced nature of our earnings momentum with double-digit growth at nearly every operating segment. Domestically, the strength of our broadcast network and cable assets has enabled us to capitalize on the current advertising market, while at the same time we continue to ramp up affiliate revenues across our cable channels. And our internet platform is now delivering real profits from locked in search revenues as well as from advertising revenue growth as a result of our hyper-targeting initiatives. We are also generating increased profits internationally led by continued subscriber growth at Sky Italia, expanded offerings from our Fox International Cable channels, and sustained strength at our Australian newspaper group. Our unrelenting focus on exploring new opportunities as consumer choice evolves and developing market leadership positions regardless of borders has enabled us to deliver consistently strong financial results irrespective of individual market conditions."
Consolidated Operating Income
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported second quarter operating income of $403 million as compared with the record results of $470 million reported in the same period a year ago. The current year results were led primarily by strong contributions from film and television home entertainment releases and also included several successful theatrical releases.
Strong second quarter film results were driven by the home entertainment success of theatrical hits , and
The Simpsons Movie
Live Free or Die Hard
Fantastic Four: Rise of
 
as well as by the pay-TV availability of and . The second quarter also included the initial results and releasing costs for several successful theatrical releases, including , which has grossed over $310 million in worldwide box office to date, as well as which has grossed over $110 million in domestic box office to date and received four Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, Best Actress, Best Screenplay and Best Director
the Silver Surfer,
Night at the Museum
Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan
Alvin and the Chipmunks
Juno,
.
Twentieth Century Fox Television reported lower contributions versus the second quarter a year ago, primarily reflecting the timing and delivery of new episodes partially offset by higher contributions from domestic syndication and international television, most notably from and .
Family Guy
The Simpsons
TELEVISION
The Television segment reported second quarter operating income of $245 million, more than double the $112 million reported in the same period a year ago. The $133 million increase was led by improved results from the FOX Broadcasting Company, MyNetworkTV and STAR partially offset by lower contributions from the Television Stations.
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, second quarter operating results nearly doubled compared to a year ago, primarily due to increased advertising pricing in conjunction with strong network ratings for prime-time and sports programming. Additionally, the improved quarterly results benefited from lower programming costs, primarily from reduced coverage of Major League Baseball's post-season and decreased cancellation costs versus the prior year. Following the end of the quarter, the network further strengthened its schedule with the launch of and the return of .
The Moment of Truth
American Idol
Fox Television Stations' second quarter operating income declined 16% from the same period a year ago as advertising strength associated with FOX primetime and the continued success of local news was more than offset by lower political advertising revenues, a decline in Major League Baseball revenues from the absence of the divisional series and one league championship series and decreased advertising revenues at the MyNetwork affiliated stations.
STAR's second quarter operating income increased versus the same quarter a year ago on 17% revenue growth driven by advertising and subscription revenue gains, primarily in India. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming costs from new program launches, most notably at STAR PLUS in India.
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Cable Network Programming reported second quarter operating income of $337 million, a 23% increase over the second quarter a year ago, reflecting increased contributions from Fox News Channel, the Regional Sports Networks and the Fox International Channels, partially offset by launch costs associated with the Fox Business Network and
 
the Big Ten Network. Quarterly results also reflect the inclusion of the National Geographic Channels which were not consolidated in the same period a year ago.
Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 47% compared to the second quarter a year ago, primarily from higher affiliate revenues on increased rates and additional subscribers. The quarter also included advertising revenue growth on increased rates and higher volume as ratings increased in both prime-time and on a 24-hour basis. For the quarter, FNC's viewership was more than 80% greater than its nearest competitor in primetime and was 67% greater on a 24-hour basis, reflecting FNC broadcasting the top seven shows in cable news.
At our other cable channels, operating income increased 15% as compared with the second quarter a year ago as increased contributions from the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs) and Fox International Channels were partially offset by launch costs for the Fox Business Network and the Big Ten Network, as well as from lower contributions at FX. The growth at the RSNs was driven by higher affiliate revenues from increased rates and additional subscribers. The increased contributions from the Fox International Channels were driven by continued advertising and affiliate growth in Latin America and Europe. Operating income at FX declined during the quarter as increased affiliate and ancillary revenues were more than offset by higher programming costs for movie product and original programming.
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
SKY Italia reported a second quarter operating income of $62 million, an improvement of $74 million versus a loss of $12 million a year ago, on local currency revenue growth of 12%. This improvement primarily reflects subscriber additions, with more than 400,000 net subscribers added over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 4.43 million at quarter end. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming spending associated with the larger subscriber base, as well as costs associated with the launch of new channels.
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported second quarter operating income of $85 million, an $11 million increase over the $74 million reported in the same quarter a year ago. The 15% growth was primarily due to increased demand and higher rates for in-store marketing products, as well as lower printing and paper costs for free-standing inserts.
NEWSPAPERS AND INFORMATION SERVICES
The Newspapers and Information Services segment, previously referred to as Newspapers, reported second quarter operating income of $196 million, an increase of $26 million versus the same period a year ago. The 15% increase included advertising revenue growth, primarily in Australia, partially offset by increased depreciation in the U.K. associated with the development of new color printing operations.
 
The U.K. newspaper group reported a decrease in operating income in local currency terms as compared with the second quarter a year ago primarily as a result of increased accelerated depreciation on the printing presses that will be replaced, sooner than anticipated, by the new color printing operations. During the quarter, advertising revenues were slightly above prior year while circulation revenues declined slightly.
The Australian newspaper group reported second quarter operating income growth versus a year ago in local currency terms on the strength of display and classified advertising revenues. Display advertising was led by the retail and real estate sectors while classified advertising experienced gains in the employment sector.
BOOK PUBLISHING
HarperCollins reported second quarter operating income of $67 million, an increase of $13 million versus the same period a year ago, which included charges due to the bankruptcy filing of a major distributor. The 24% growth included strong sales of by Andrea J. Buchanan and Miriam Peskowitz, by Conn and Hal Iggulden and by Jessica Seinfeld. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 40 books on bestseller list, including 5 titles that reached the #1 spot.
The Daring Book for Girls
The Dangerous Book for Boys
Deceptively Delicious
The New York Times
OTHER
The Other segment reported operating income of $23 million, a $22 million improvement versus the second quarter a year ago, primarily led by improved results at Fox Interactive Media (FIM), partially offset by startup losses at our Eastern European broadcasting initiatives. Strong operating income growth at FIM was driven by higher search revenues, primarily from the Google agreement which took effect in January 2007, and advertising revenue growth as a result of increased traffic, further inventory monetization and international expansion. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased costs associated with the larger audience, international expansion and new features.
OTHER ITEMS
On December 13, 2007 the Company completed its previously announced acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Dow Jones & Company for approximately $5.7 billion, including the assumption of net debt. The results of Dow Jones & Company are now reflected in the Newspapers and Information Services segment.
In December 2007, the Company entered into an agreement to sell eight of its owned-and-operated FOX network affiliated television stations to Oak Hill Capital Partners for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. The sale is subject to regulatory and other customary conditions and is expected to close in the third calendar quarter of 2008.
 
Following the quarter, News Corporation acquired a 14.58 percent stake in Premiere AG, the leading German pay-TV operator.
A dividend of $0.06 per Class A share and Class B share has been declared and is payable on April 16, 2008. The record date for determining dividend entitlements is March 12, 2008.
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at
http://www.newscorp.com.
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the second quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:30 P.M. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen to the call, visit
http://www.newscorp.com.
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
NOTE 1 - SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis for fiscal 2007 as the Company was required to present the two-class method prior to fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2007, under U.S. GAAP, earnings per share was computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders is allocated between our two classes of common stock for fiscal 2007. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
NOTE 2 - OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 


