FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20080415201944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.02.    Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On April 15, 2008, News Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), entered into an amendment ("Amendment No. 2") to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of August 4, 2006, as amended on January 3, 2007, by and between the Company and Computershare Investor Services, LLC, as Rights Agent (which, together with Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2 shall be referred to as the "Rights Agreement"). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Rights Agreement.
Amendment No. 2 amends the final expiration date of the Rights issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement from October 20, 2008 to April 15, 2008. Accordingly, the Rights expired at the close of business on April 15, 2008 and the Rights Agreement has been terminated and is of no further force and effect. The Rights will be de-listed from the New York Stock Exchange, and de-registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. A copy of Amendment No. 2 is attached hereto as Ex hibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 3.03.    Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
 
The information set forth in each of Item 1.02 and Item 5.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference in response to this Item 3.03.
 
 
Item 5.03.    Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
In connection with the termination of the Rights Agreement, on April 15, 2008, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination (the "Certificate of Elimination") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to eliminate all references in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the Company's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 8.01.    Other Events
 
On April 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company also approved the elimination of the Company's classified board structure beginning at the Company's annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008 (the "2008 Annual Meeting"), subject to stockholder approval by the Company's Class B common stockholders at the 2008 Annual Meeting of a proposal to amend the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation to allow for the annual election of directors.
A copy of the Company's press release (i) describing Amendment No. 2 and the termination of the Rights Agreement and (ii) announcing the Board's approval of the elimination of the Company's classified board structure is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
               
Exhibit
Number       Description
______________________________________________________________
3.1               Certificate of Elimination of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
4.1               Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of August 4, 2006, as amended on January 3, 2007,
              &n bsp;    by and between the Company and Computershare Investor Services, LLC, as Rights Agent.
99.1             Press Release by News Corporation dated April 15, 2008.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 3.1
News Corporation, (the "Company"), a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), does hereby certify as follows:
: Pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Directors of the Company by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the Board of Directors of the Company previously adopted resolutions creating and authorizing the issuance of 9,000,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock") in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights governing the Series A Preferred Stock (the "Series A Certificate of Designation") as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on November 8, 2004.
First
: None of the authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding and none will be issued subject to the Series A Certificate of Designation.
Second
: Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors adopted a resolution on April 15, 2008, approving the elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock, as set forth herein:
Third
"RESOLVED, that none of the authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding and that none shall be issued pursuant to the Series A Certificate of Designation; and it is further
RESOLVED, that, upon filing a Certificate of Elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock (the "Series A Certificate of Elimination"), with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, all matters set forth in the Series A Certificate of Designation with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock shall be eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation; and it is further
RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers of the Company in the name and on behalf of the Company be, and each of them individually hereby is, authorized and directed, with the assistance of counsel, to prepare, execute and deliver to the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, the Series A Certificate of Elimination, as required by the DGCL in order to effect the elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock; and it is further
RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers of the Company be, and they hereby are, authorized and directed, jointly and severally, for and in the name and on behalf of the Company, to execute and deliver any and all certificates, agreements, and other documents, take any and all steps and do any and all things which they may deem necessary or advisable in order to effect the purposes of each and all of the foregoing resolutions; and it is further
RESOLVED, that any actions taken by such Authorized Officers prior to the date of these resolutions that are within the authority conferred hereby are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects as the act and deed of the Company."
: In accordance with Section 151(g) of the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation as effective immediately prior to the filing of this Certificate of Elimination, is hereby amended to eliminate all references to the Series A Preferred Stock.
Fourth
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be acknowledged as true in its corporate name and executed by its duly authorized officer this 15th day of April, 2008.
By: Name: Lawrence A. Jacobs Title: Senior Executive Vice President and Group General Counsel
__/s/ Lawrence A. Jacobs_________

EXHIBIT 4.1
AMENDMENT NO. 2, dated as of April 15, 2008 (this "Amendment No. 2"), to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of August 4, 2006, between News Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Computershare Investor Services, LLC (the "Rights Agent"), as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of January 3, 2007 (as amended, the "Rights Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Amendment No. 2 but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Rights Agreement.
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into the Rights Agreement specifying the terms of the Rights (as defined therein);
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent agreed as of January 3, 2007, to amend the Rights Agreement as set forth in Amendment No. 1;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, prior to the Distribution Date, the Company and the Rights Agent, shall, if directed by the Company, supplement or amend any provision of the Rights Agreement, without the approval of any holders of Common Stock;
WHEREAS, the Distribution Date has not occurred;
WHEREAS, the Company has delivered to the Rights Agent a certificate stating that this Amendment No. 2 complies with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement;
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent desire to amend the Rights Agreement in accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement as set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements set forth in the Rights Agreement and this Amendment, the parties hereby agree as follows:
Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety:
"Section 7. Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of Rights.
(a) Subject to Section 7(e) hereof, at any time after the Distribution Date the registered holder of any Rights Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein including, without limitation, the restrictions on exercisability set forth in Section 9(c), Section 11(a)(iii) and Section 23(a) hereof) in whole or in part upon surrender of the Rights Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as to which such surrendered Rights are then exercisable, and an amount equal to any tax or charge required to be paid under Section 9(e), at or prior to the earlier of (i) 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on April 15, 2008 (the &q uot;Final Expiration Date"), or (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed or exchanged as provided in Section 23 and Section 24 hereof (the earlier of clauses (i) and (ii) being referred to herein as the "Expiration Date")."
The Exhibits to the Rights Agreement shall be deemed restated to reflect this Amendment No. 2, .
mutatis mutandis
The term "Agreement" as used in the Rights Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Rights Agreement as amended hereby.
This Amendment shall be effective upon execution by the parties hereto and, except as set forth herein, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, each of the Company and the Rights Agent hereby acknowledges and agrees that at 5:00 P.M., New York City time on the Final Expiration Date (as amended hereby), the Rights Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect.
This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Corporation
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release Contacts - Investor Relations: Reed Nolte 212-852-7092 Press: Teri Everett 212-852-7070
News Corporation Approves Termination of Stockholder Rights Plan
Company moves to eliminate classified board structure
 
News Corporation today announced that its Board of Directors approved the termination of the Company's Amended and Restated Stockholder Rights Plan, effective immediately.
NEW YORK, NY, April 15, 2008 -
The Company also announced that the Board approved the elimination of the Company's classified board structure, subject to the Company's Class B common stockholders' approval at the Company's 2008 annual meeting of an amendment to the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
Upon approval, all of the Company's directors will stand for re-election for a one-year term beginning at the 2008 annual stockholders meeting.
The Board had previously stated that it would take action to terminate the stockholder rights plan and eliminate the classified board structure following the closing of the Share Exchange Agreement with Liberty Media Corporation. The share exchange was completed on February 27, 2008.
 
News Corporation
(NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of December 31, 2007 of approximately US$69 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$31 billion. News Corporation is a diversified entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers and information services; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
 
 
 


