FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20080229121814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 27, 2008, News Corporation (the "Company") closed the previously announced transaction contemplated by the share exchange agreement (the "Share Exchange Agreement") with Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty"). Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, Liberty exchanged its entire interest in the Company's common stock (approximately 325 million shares of News Corporation Class A common stock and 188 million shares of News Corporation Class B common stock) for 100% of a subsidiary of the Company, whose holdings consist of the Company's approximately 41% interest (approximately 470 million shares) in The DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DIRECTV") constituting the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV, three of the Company's Regional Sports Networks (FSN Northwest, FSN Pittsburgh and FSN Rocky Mountain) (the "Three RSNs") and approximately $625 million in cash (the "Exchange"). The Exchange results in the divestiture of the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV and the Three RSNs to Liberty. The consideration was negotiated between the parties and the Share Exchange Agreement was approved by the disinterested stockholders of the Company.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations give effect to the Exchange as if it had occurred July 1, 2006 and include adjustments which give effect to events that are directly attributable to the Exchange and that are factually supportable. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet gives effect to the Exchange as if it occurred as of December 31, 2007 and includes adjustments which give effect to events that are directly attributable to the transaction and are factually supportable. The notes to the pro forma financial information describe the pro forma amounts and adjustments presented below.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 and the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, which were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 23, 2007 and February 6, 2008, respectively.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is provided for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what the Company's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the Exchange been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the Company. Final recognition of the Exchange may differ from the pro forma adjustments presented herein.
All shares of the Company's common stock acquired through the Exchange ceased to be outstanding after consummation of the Exchange. The market price of the Company's common stock utilized in the pro forma condensed financial information is the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange on February 27, 2008, the closing date of the Exchange.
 
See accompanying notes
 
See accompanying notes
 
See accompanying notes
Pro forma adjustments on the December 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations include adjustments (b) through (f) and pro forma adjustments on the December 31, 2007 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet include adjustments (h) through (m).
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, the Company's Class A Common Stock carried rights to a greater dividend than the Company's Class B Common Stock. The Earnings Per Share ("EPS") of the Company was computed individually for the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Net income was apportioned to both Class A stockholders and Class B stockholders on the ratio of 1.2 to 1, respectively, in accordance with the rights of the stockholders as described in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation. In order to give effect to this apportionment when determining EPS, the weighted average Class A Common Stock was increased by 20% (the "Adjusted Class") and was then compared to the sum of the weighted average Class B Common Stock and the weighted average Adjusted Class. The resulting percentage was then applied to the income from continuing operations to determine the apportionment for the Class A stockholders with the balance attributable to the Class B stockholders. Subsequent to the final fiscal 2007 dividend payment, shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock ceased to carry any rights to a greater dividend than shares of the Company's Class B Common Stock.
Income was allocated for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 29, 2008
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
News Corporation Completes Exchange Agreement with Liberty Media Corporation
Largest Buyback in Company's History
 
 
News Corporation today announced the completion of its previously announced share exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation.
NEW YORK, NY, February 27, 2008 
Under the terms of the agreement, approved by the Company's Class B common stockholders on April 3, 2007, Liberty exchanged its entire approximately 16 percent interest in the Company's common stock (324.6 million Class A and 188 million Class B shares) for 100% of a News Corporation subsidiary, whose holdings consist of the Company's entire 41 percent stake (470.4 million shares) in The DIRECTV Group, Inc.; three Regional Sports Networks (FSN Northwest, FSN Pittsburgh and FSN Rocky Mountain); and approximately $625 million in cash.
With the completion of the agreement, News Corporation accomplishes an approximately $10.1 billion stock buyback, the largest buyback in the Company's history.
(NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of December 31, 2007 of approximately US$69 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$31 billion. News Corporation is a diversified entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers and information services; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
News Corporation
 
 


