FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20080212165422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On February 12, 2008, News Corporation (the "Company") announced that Dr. Roderick Paige resigned from the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") effective as of February 12, 2008. Dr. Paige's resignation is not due to any disagreement with the Company. Dr. Paige will remain with the Company as a consultant on educational matters.
To fill the vacancy on the Board created by Dr. Paige's resignation, on February 12, 2008, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, appointed Mark Hurd to serve as a Class III director of the Board. There were no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Mr. Hurd was appointed as a director, and there are no related party transactions between the Company and Mr. Hurd reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. The Board has affirmatively determined that Mr. Hurd qualifies as an "independent director" under the New York Stock Exchange listing rules and the categorical standards adopted by the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Accordingly, the Board also appointed Mr. Hurd as a member of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Mr. Hurd has served as Chairman of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") since September 2006 and as Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of HP's Board of Directors since April 2005. Prior to joining HP, Mr. Hurd spent 25 years at NCR Corporation ("NCR"), where he held a variety of management, operations and sales and marketing roles, including as Chief Executive Officer from 2003 to 2005 and as its President from 2001 to 2005.
For his service as a non-executive director of the Board and his membership on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Mr. Hurd will receive the same retainer fees as other non-executive directors, pro-rated to reflect his term of service. A description of non-executive director retainer fees and committee fees for fiscal 2008 are set forth in a summary sheet filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Compan y's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing Dr. Paige's resignation from the Board and the appointment of Mr. Hurd to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit
Number               Description
99.1        Press release of News Corporation, dated February 12, 2008.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Corporation
NEWS RELEASE
For Immediate Release
Contact: Teri Everett 212-852-7070
News Corporation Appoints Mark Hurd to Board of Directors
Dr. Rod Paige Resigns From Board
______________________
- News Corporation today announced that Mark Hurd, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hewlett-Packard Company, has been appointed to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Hurd, 51, will serve on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. His appointment is effective immediately.
New York, NY - February 12, 2008
The Company also announced today that Dr. Rod Paige, former U.S. Secretary of Education, has resigned from the Company's Board of Directors. He has served on the Board since 2006 and will remain with News Corporation as a consultant on educational matters.
Announcing the appointment of Mr. Hurd and Dr. Paige's resignation, News Corporation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said: "Mark has had great success in sharpening HP's strategic focus resulting in increased growth and profitability for what is one of the world's leading technology companies. As we continue to position our company for the digital age, Mark's vast operational experience in the technology sector will be a valuable asset to the News Corp. Board, and we welcome him to our ranks."
He continued, "I am grateful to Rod for his service to the Board and am delighted that he has agreed to continue with News Corporation as a consultant. I look forward to continuing to benefit from his wisdom and experience."
"I look forward to serving on News Corp.'s Board and contributing to its continued remarkable success," Mr. Hurd said.
Mr. Hurd has served as HP's Chief Executive Officer, President and a member of its Board of Directors since April 2005, and as Chairman since September 2006. Prior to joining HP, he spent 25 years at NCR Corp., where he held a variety of management, operations, and sales and marketing roles, including chief executive officer and president. Mr. Hurd earned a bachelor's degree in business administration in 1979 from Baylor University.
(NYSE: NWS, NWS.A; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of December 31, 2007 of approximately US$69 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$31 billion. News Corporation is a diversified entertainment company with operations in eight industry segments: filmed entertainment; television; cable network programming; direct broadcast satellite television; magazines and inserts; newspapers and information services; book publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and the Pacific Basin.
News Corporation
Editors note: A picture of Mr. Hurd is available upon request from mwhiteman@newscorp.com.
 
 
 


