FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20080507160408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 7, 2008, News Corporation (the "Company") released its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 7, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (NYSE: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported third quarter net income of $2.7 billion ($0.91 per share) as compared with $871 million ($0.27 per share on a diluted combined basis
NEW YORK, NY, May 7, 2008 
1
) reported in the third quarter a year ago. The year-on-year growth reflects an increase in Other, net of $1.6 billion primarily reflecting a $1.7 billion tax-free gain on the asset and stock exchange with Liberty Media Corporation. Additionally, increases in consolidated operating income partially offset by lower equity earnings contributed to the improved results.
Consolidated operating income for the third quarter of $1.4 billion was up 16% versus the $1.2 billion reported a year ago, primarily driven by double-digit percentage increases at the Television, Cable Network Programming, Newspapers and Information Services and Other segments.
 
 
 
Third quarter net earnings from affiliates were $109 million versus $255 million reported in the same period a year ago. The $146 million decrease was primarily driven by lower contributions from BSkyB due to the write-down of its ITV investment and by a decrease in contributions from The DIRECTV Group as a result of the Company's exchange with Liberty Media Corporation in February 2008.
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"Our 16% revenue and operating income growth this past quarter is a great illustration of how the diversity of our asset base is translating into sustained financial success. We delivered growth from advertising based businesses, such as our television stations and broadcast network, and we delivered growth from subscription based businesses, such as our domestic cable channels. We delivered growth from established businesses, such as our newspapers and we delivered growth from our developing assets, such as our international cable channels and Fox Interactive Media. Our ability to generate returns from a multitude of sources puts us in a great position to maintain our financial momentum even in times of economic uncertainty."
Consolidated Operating Income
 
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported third quarter operating income of $261 million as compared with the record third quarter results of $410 million reported in the same period a year ago. The current year results were led primarily by a string of successful theatrical releases, as well as by strong contributions from film and television home entertainment releases.
 
 
Third quarter film results were driven by the continued theatrical success of which has delivered over $350 million in worldwide box office to date, and Academy Award winner , which has now generated over $225 million in worldwide box office. Additionally, the current quarter also included continued home entertainment contributions from theatrical hits , andas well as pay-TV contributions from and . The third quarter also reflected the initial releasing costs and results for several new successful theatrical releases, including and , with more than $275 million and $219 million, respectively, in worldwide box office to date.
Alvin and the Chipmunks,
Juno
The Simpsons Movie
Live Free or Die Hard
Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer,
Night at the Museum
Eragon
Horton Hears a Who!
Jumper
Twentieth Century Fox Television reported slightly lower contributions versus the third quarter a year ago, primarily reflecting the timing and delivery of new episodes partially offset by higher contributions from home entertainment, primarily from .
Family Guy
TELEVISION
The Television segment reported third quarter operating income of $419 million, an increase of $146 million versus the same period a year ago. The 53% growth was led by higher contributions from the FOX Broadcasting Company, Fox Television Stations and STAR and improved results at MyNetworkTV.
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, third quarter operating income nearly doubled versus a year ago primarily reflecting lower prime-time programming costs and advertising revenue growth. The increased advertising revenues were driven by higher pricing for sports and prime-time programming, as well as by strong ratings for the National Football League post-season. These results were partially offset by costs associated with the broadcast of Super Bowl XLII.
Fox Television Stations' third quarter operating income increased 12% from the same period a year ago as the broadcast of Super Bowl XLII on FOX drove advertising revenue growth and contributed to record market share during the quarter. Additionally, political spending for the presidential primaries contributed to the year-on-year growth.
STAR's third quarter operating income increased versus the same period a year ago as 15% revenue growth was driven by higher subscription revenues, primarily from India. The revenue growth was partially offset by increased programming costs for new program launches.
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Cable Network Programming reported third quarter operating income of $330 million, a 17% increase over the third quarter a year ago, reflecting increased contributions from Fox News Channel, the Regional Sports Networks, FX and the Fox International Channels, partially offset by launch costs associated with the Fox Business Network and the Big Ten Network. Quarterly results also reflect the inclusion of National Geographic Channels which were not consolidated in the same period a year ago.
 
 
Fox News Channel (FNC) reported operating income growth of 11% compared to the third quarter a year ago as affiliate revenues increased from higher rates and additional subscribers and advertising revenues expanded primarily from increased pricing. Partially offsetting the revenue growth was higher programming costs from coverage of the presidential primaries. For the quarter, FNC's viewership was more than 40% greater than its nearest competitor in primetime and on a 24-hour basis, reflecting FNC broadcasting the top five shows in cable news.
At our other cable channels, operating income increased 20% as compared with the third quarter a year ago as increased contributions from the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs), FX and Fox International Channels were partially offset by launch costs for the Fox Business Network and the Big Ten Network. Higher affiliate revenues from increased rates and additional subscribers contributed to the growth at the RSNs and FX, which also increased its advertising revenues versus the same period a year ago. The increased contributions from the Fox International Channels were driven by continued advertising and affiliate growth in Latin America and Europe.
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
SKY Italia reported third quarter operating income of $97 million, an improvement of 7% versus a year ago, on local currency revenue growth of 6%. This improvement reflects subscriber additions, with more than 342,000 net subscribers added over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 4.5 million at quarter end, as well as the impact from foreign currency fluctuations. The subscriber revenue growth was partially offset by reduced mobile revenues, increased programming spending associated primarily with the larger subscriber base and the launch of new channels, as well as planned higher promotional costs for new subscriber offerings.
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported third quarter operating income of $93 million, a decrease of 9% versus the $102 million reported in the quarter a year ago. The decline was primarily driven by lower rates and a decline in page volume for free-standing inserts.
NEWSPAPERS AND INFORMATION SERVICES
The Newspapers and Information Services segment, previously referred to as Newspapers, reported third quarter operating income of $216 million, an increase of $60 million versus the same period a year ago. The 38% increase primarily reflects advertising revenue growth in Australia, reduced transition costs to our new U.K. printing presses and the inclusion of the results of Dow Jones & Company, which was acquired in December 2007.
The U.K. newspaper group reported an increase in operating income in local currency terms as compared with the third quarter a year ago primarily as a result of reduced depreciation on the printing presses that were decommissioned during the quarter as the
Company transitioned to new color printing operations. During the quarter, advertising and circulation revenues were in-line with the prior year.
 
 
The Australian newspaper group reported third quarter operating income growth versus a year ago in local currency terms primarily from increased display advertising revenues. The increase in display advertising was led by strength in the retail and real estate sectors.
BOOK PUBLISHING
HarperCollins reported third quarter operating income of $29 million, in-line with the same period a year ago. The current quarter included strong sales of by Janet Evanovich, by Dr. Laura Schlessinger, by Lisa Scottoline, by Jane O'Connor and by C.S. Lewis. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 54 books on bestseller list, including 4 titles that reached the #1 spot.
Naughty Neighbor
Stop Whining, Start Living
Lady Killer
Fancy Nancy, Bonjour Butterfly
The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian
The New York Times
OTHER
The Other segment reported an operating loss of $7 million, a $97 million improvement versus the third quarter a year ago, primarily from the absence of losses associated with the 2007 Cricket World Cup which were included in the third quarter in the prior year. Current quarter results also include higher contributions from Fox Interactive Media and NDS, partially offset by startup losses at our Eastern European broadcasting initiatives. At Fox Interactive Media strong revenue growth from increased search and advertising revenues was partially offset by increased costs associated with domestic and international expansion, new features and costs associated with the startup of new ventures.
OTHER ITEMS
In February 2008, News Corporation completed its previously announced share exchange agreement with Liberty Media Corporation. Under the terms of the agreement, approved by the Company's Class B common stockholders on April 3, 2007, Liberty exchanged its entire approximately 16 percent interest in the Company's common stock (325 million Class A and 188 million Class B shares) for the Company's entire stake in The DIRECTV Group, three Regional Sports Networks and approximately $625 million in cash.
In January 2008, News Corporation acquired a 14.58 percent stake in Premiere AG, the leading German pay-TV operator for 287 million Euro in cash. In February 2008, the Company increased its total stake to nearly 20 percent and following the quarter it purchased additional shares, raising its total stake to approximately 23 percent.
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corporation's corporate website located at http://www.newscorp.com
Audio from News Corporation's conference call with analysts on the third quarter results can be heard live on the internet at 4:30 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
NOTE 1 - SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS PER SHARE DATA
Earnings per share is presented on a combined basis for fiscal 2007 as the Company was required to present the two-class method prior to fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2007, under U.S. GAAP, earnings per share was computed individually for the Class A and Class B shares. Class A non-voting shares carry rights to a greater dividend than Class B voting shares through fiscal 2007. As such, net income available to the Company's common stockholders was allocated between our two classes of common stock for fiscal 2007. The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Earnings per share by class and by total weighted average shares outstanding (Class A and Class B combined) is as follows:
 
 
 
NOTE 2 - OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Operating income before depreciation and amortization, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments, eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of non-cash depreciation and amortization. Since operating income before depreciation and amortization is a non-GAAP measure it should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income, net income, cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Operating income before depreciation and amortization does not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and the items excluded from operating income before depreciation and amortization, such as depreciation and amortization, are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Management believes that operating income before depreciation and amortization is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Operating income before depreciation and amortization, which is the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical and competitors' data.
The following table reconciles operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income.
 
 
 
 
 
 


