FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20090506160707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On May 6, 2009, News Corporation (the "Company") released its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 6, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Corporation (NASDAQ: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported third quarter net income of $2.7 billion ($1.04 per share) compared with net income of $2.7 billion ($0.91 per share) reported in the third quarter a year ago. During this third quarter, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.2 billion on the partial sale of its ownership stake in NDS Group plc ("NDS") and a non-cash tax benefit of $1.2 billion from the resolution of various tax matters. The prior year's third quarter net income included a $1.7 billion tax-free gain on the asset and stock exchange with Liberty Media Corporation. Operating income for the third fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009 was $755 million, compared with $1.4 billion reported a year ago.
NEW YORK, NY, May 6, 2009 
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"Our third quarter results directly reflect the continuing weakness of the global economic climate. Despite this tough environment, we have proven resilient in several key areas this quarter. Our Cable Network Programming segment showed remarkable growth, led by the FOX News Channel which nearly doubled its operating income over the year ago quarter. Filmed Entertainment saw an earnings increase in the same period and I am encouraged by our upcoming slate of movies this summer.
We improved our already solid cash position adding another $2.4 billion to our cash balances during the third quarter, which includes cash received from the completion of the NDS transaction. We continued to make necessary operational adjustments to ensure our businesses are performing at optimum levels. We are working daily to increase market share and strengthen our core businesses, even in this very challenging environment."
REVIEW OF OPERATING RESULTS
Third quarter consolidated operating income of $755 million declined 47% compared with operating income of $1.4 billion reported a year ago. This result reflects double-digit growth at the Cable Network Programming segment, as well as increases at the Filmed Entertainment and Magazines and Inserts segments. These increases were more than offset by significantly reduced contributions at the Company's remaining operating segments.
 
Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)
FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
The Filmed Entertainment segment reported third quarter operating income of $282 million, 8% higher than the $261 million reported for the same period a year ago. The improvement reflects higher contributions from Twentieth Century Fox Television driven by increased domestic syndication revenue from and and international television revenue for and . Current quarter film results also include theatrical revenues from and which together have generated more than $450 million in worldwide box office receipts. This quarter also reflects the theatrical expansion of , winner of eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture, which has generated over $140 million in domestic box office receipts.
How I Met Your Mother
Boston Legal
The Simpsons
24
Marley and Me
Taken,
Slumdog Millionaire
TELEVISION
The Television segment reported third quarter operating income of $4 million, a decline of $415 million versus the same period a year ago, due to decreased operating results at the Fox Television Stations, FOX Broadcasting Company and STAR.
Fox Television Stations' third quarter operating income decreased 72% from the same period a year ago, reflecting a significant overall weakening of the local advertising markets and the absence of both the Super Bowl and contributions from eight stations that were sold in July 2008. Local television station advertising markets declined nearly 30% in the quarter compared with a year ago, reflecting particularly weak automobile, financial and movie entertainment advertising trends.
At the FOX Broadcasting Company, third quarter operating results declined due to higher programming costs driven by increased license fees for returning series and lower advertising revenue. The increase in entertainment programming costs was primarily attributable to lower costs in the prior year as a result of the Writer's Guild of America strike.
 
 
STAR's third quarter operating income decreased versus the same quarter a year ago due to advertising revenue declines, primarily in India, and costs of the recent launch of regional channels in India. The decreases in advertising revenues were partially offset by higher affiliate revenues.
CABLE NETWORK PROGRAMMING
Cable Network Programming reported third quarter operating income of $429 million, an increase of $99 million over the third quarter a year ago. This 30% growth was driven by higher contributions from the FOX News Channel, the Big Ten Network and the Fox International Channels.
The FOX News Channel (FNC) almost doubled its operating income versus the third quarter a year ago, primarily from increased affiliate revenues on higher rates. In the quarter ended March 31, 2009, FNC primetime ratings were up 23% compared with the same period a year ago. The Fox International Channels increased its earnings contributions by 25% over year ago levels driven by continued advertising and affiliate growth in Latin America and Europe. The Big Ten Network achieved its second quarter of profitability, having gained distribution on all major pay-TV platforms in the Big Ten markets. Contributions from the Regional Sports Networks were down for the quarter as increased affiliate revenue was offset by the absence of contributions from the three regional networks that were divested in February 2008.
DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE TELEVISION
SKY Italia reported third quarter operating income of $63 million, a decrease of $34 million versus the $97 million in operating income reported a year ago, as local currency revenue growth of 7% was more than offset by increased operating expenses associated with higher subscriber volume, increased marketing and sports rights costs. Local currency revenue growth primarily reflects net subscriber additions of 290,000 over the past 12 months, bringing SKY Italia's subscriber base to 4.8 million at quarter's end. This revenue growth in the third quarter versus the prior year was reduced due to the change in the timing of revenue recognition associated with expanded soccer programming, which is now broadcast throughout fiscal 2009, compared with only ten months of programming in fiscal 2008. This programming change shifts a portion of soccer revenues that were previously recognized in the last three fiscal quarters into the first quarter of the fiscal year.
MAGAZINES AND INSERTS
The Magazines and Inserts segment reported third quarter operating income of $97 million, a 4% increase versus the prior year. Higher revenue from both increased rates for free-standing inserts and higher custom publishing insert revenue more than offset higher paper costs.
 
 
NEWSPAPERS AND INFORMATION SERVICES
The Newspapers and Information Services segment reported third quarter operating income of $7 million, down $209 million from the $216 million reported in the same period a year ago, primarily due to lower advertising revenues, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and Australian dollar and restructuring charges totaling $23 million.
The U.K. newspaper group's third quarter profit contributions declined significantly as compared to the year ago quarter in local currency terms primarily due to 21% lower advertising revenues, as well as higher marketing and production costs. Circulation revenues increased at all four mastheads during the quarter due to cover price increases.
The Australian newspaper group reported 42% lower third quarter operating income in local currency terms versus the prior year third quarter, primarily due to a 16% decline in advertising revenue reflecting lower display and classified advertising, especially in the employment and real estate sectors, and higher pension related expenses. Circulation revenues were in line with the year ago period.
Dow Jones & Company's third quarter operating results declined from the same period a year ago, reflecting lower advertising revenue at and lower information services revenue that more than offset reduced operating expenses. Circulation revenues increased during the quarter, primarily due to price increases at .
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
BOOK PUBLISHING
HarperCollins operating results decreased $67 million versus the same period a year ago due to the weakening retail market. Segment results for the quarter also reflect the inclusion of $30 million of restructuring charges. Third quarter results included solid sales of ; and. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 55 books on bestseller list, including seven books that reached the #1 spot.
Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man; The Grand Finale
Multiple Blessings
The Graveyard Book
The New York Times
OTHER
The Other segment reported a third quarter operating loss of $89 million, an $82 million decline from the operating results of a year ago primarily due to lower contributions from NDS and Fox Interactive Media ("FIM"). The decline at NDS reflects the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake on February 5, 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS operating results subsequent to January 2009 is included within Equity earnings. The decline in FIM operating results was driven by lower advertising revenues combined with increased costs associated with the MySpace music joint venture and the launch of new features.
 
 
REVIEW OF EQUITY (LOSSES) EARNINGS OF AFFILIATES' RESULTS
Third quarter losses from affiliates were $40 million as compared to earnings from affiliates of $109 million in the same period a year ago. This decline was primarily driven by the absence of earnings from The DIRECTV Group and Gemstar - TV Guide resulting from the sale of these investments in fiscal 2008.
The Company's share of equity (losses) earnings of affiliates is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date profit results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the third quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
NOTE 1 - ADJUSTED OPERATING INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
Adjusted operating income (loss) is defined as operating income (loss) plus impairment charges and eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of the non-cash impairment charges recorded in the nine months ended March 31, 2009. An impairment charge is recorded for the difference between the carrying value and the net present value of estimated future cash flows, which represents the estimated fair value of the asset.
Adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization is defined as Adjusted operating income (loss) plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments and eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense includes the depreciation of property and equipment, as well as amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. Amortization of cable distribution investments represents a reduction against revenues over the term of a carriage arrangement and, as such, it is excluded from Operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted operating income (loss) and Adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization are non-GAAP measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, operating income (loss), net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures do not reflect cash available to fund requirements, and these measures exclude items, such as impairment charges, depreciation and amortization, which are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance.
Management believes that Adjusted operating income (loss) and Adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Adjusted operating income (loss) and Adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization, represent the information reported to and used by the Company's chief decision maker for the purpose of making decisions about the allocation of resources to segments and assessing their performance, provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each business segment and enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data.
The following table reconciles Adjusted operating income before depreciation and amortization to the presentation of operating income (loss).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


