FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20100504160739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 4, 2010, News Corporation (the "Company") released its financial results for the quarter ended March, 31, 2010. A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 4, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Corporation (NASDAQ: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported financial results for the third quarter ended March 31, 2010.
NEW YORK, NY, May 4, 2010 
Total revenue increased $1.4 billion or 19% over the prior year's third quarter to $8.8 billion, with growth reported in all major business segments. The Company reported total segment operating income of $1.25 billion, a 55% increase compared to the $810 million reported a year ago
1
. This improvement rises to 67% after considering the absence of the $60 million in operating income from NDS Group plc ("NDS") which is no longer consolidated this year. These results reflect particularly strong earnings growth at the Filmed Entertainment, Cable Network Programming, and Newspapers and Information Services segments. This growth was partially offset by decreases at the Direct Broadcast Satellite Television and Other segments.
The Company reported third quarter net income of $839 million ($0.32 per share) compared to net income of $2.7 billion ($1.04 per share) a year ago. In the prior year quarter, the Company recorded a net gain of $1.2 billion on the partial sale of its ownership stake in NDS as well as a $1.2 billion non-cash tax benefit.
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"Today's earnings confirm that no content company is stronger than News Corporation at building both fiscal and operational momentum. Our global portfolio of sought-after content is ideally situated to benefit from the increase in consumer spending, advertising and access to new platforms we are seeing across our regions. The unique strengths of our cable channels  young, vibrant franchises with phenomenal growth and potential  now generate almost half of our operating profit, ensuring that our stakeholders will continue to benefit from News Corporation's sustained revenue, profit and cash flow strength for years to come."
 
 
REVIEW OF SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS
Total Segment Operating Income
 
 
Filmed Entertainment
Filmed Entertainment reported fiscal third quarter segment operating income of $497 million, a 76% increase over the $282 million for the same period a year ago. This set a record for the highest operating income of any fiscal quarter for this segment. This quarter's exceptional operating results reflect the theatrical performance of the highest grossing film of all time with total worldwide box office receipts of over $2.7 billion. Also contributing to these results was the outstanding theatrical performance of which has generated more than $440 million in worldwide box office receipts. The current quarter also includes the continued strong worldwide home entertainment performance of , and Launch costs for the successful theatrical release of and were reflected in the quarter.
Avatar,
Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel
Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian.
Percy Jackson and the Olympians: The Lightning Thief, The Tooth Fairy
Date Night
Television
Television reported improved third quarter segment operating income of $40 million, compared to $9 million reported the same period a year ago, reflecting increased contributions from the Fox Television Stations (FTS) and improved operating results at MyNetworkTV. These results were partially offset by lower contributions from FOX Broadcasting Company.
FTS' third quarter operating income increased nearly 90% over the same period a year ago, reflecting 18% revenue growth from improved overall local advertising trends, particularly in the automobile and telecom sectors. This revenue growth combined with savings from ongoing cost reduction efforts delivered significant operating profit growth in the quarter.
 
 
FOX Broadcasting Company's third quarter results were lower due to higher programming costs from increased license fees for returning series and decreased advertising revenue due to lower ratings.
Cable Network Programming
Cable Network Programming reported strong third quarter segment operating income of $588 million, an increase of $162 million over the third quarter a year ago. This 38% growth primarily reflects double-digit contribution increases from the FOX News Channel (FNC), the Regional Sports Networks (RSNs), FX, the Fox International Channels and STAR.
FNC achieved its highest ever quarterly profit, increasing its operating income 31% over the third quarter a year ago primarily from affiliate revenue rate increases and higher advertising revenue while maintaining its cost base. Viewership at FNC was at its highest level ever during the quarter with ratings 188% greater than its nearest competitor in prime-time and 157% higher on a 24-hour basis. For the second consecutive quarter, FNC had the top thirteen shows in all cable news.
At the Company's other cable channels, operating profit increased 42% over the prior year's third quarter results. Increased affiliate revenues drove higher contributions at the RSNs and FX. The Fox International Channels reported double-digit affiliate and advertising revenue growth in Asia and Europe reflecting increased revenues from new channels and an increase in subscribers at existing channels. STAR's third quarter operating results improved versus the same quarter a year ago on 43% advertising revenue gains led by the Indian market.
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
SKY Italia reported third quarter segment operating income of $35 million, a decrease of $28 million from the $63 million operating income reported a year ago. Local currency revenue declined by 3% as a result of lower subscription revenue compared with the prior year quarter. Overall costs, in local currency, were flat as higher sports programming costs related to the Olympics were offset by lower basic programming costs and subscriber related costs. The quarter end subscriber base of 4.7 million declined 39,000 from the previous quarter end, as gross subscriber additions of 118,000 in the quarter were more than offset by existing subscriber cancellations.
Integrated Marketing Services
Integrated Marketing Services reported third quarter segment operating income of $108 million, as compared to the $97 million in operating income reported in the same quarter a year ago, driven by increased in-store advertising revenue.
 
 
Newspapers and Information Services
Newspapers and Information Services reported improved third quarter segment operating income of $131 million, a $102 million increase over the same period a year ago. Increased advertising revenues at and in the U.K. drove growth in the segment, which also benefited from lower operating expenses due to cost containment initiatives across all of the newspaper businesses. In addition, this quarter reflects a favorable foreign exchange impact primarily from the relative strengthening of the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar.
The Wall Street Journal
The U.K. newspaper group reported higher third quarter results compared to the year ago quarter driven by increased advertising revenue and cost reductions in production and distribution expenses. In local currency terms, advertising revenues increased 10% compared to the prior year quarter and circulation revenues declined 4%.
The Australian newspaper group reported third quarter results in line with the prior year in local currency terms. Advertising revenues, in local currency terms, were up 4% compared with the prior year quarter reflecting stronger display revenue in the retail and real estate sectors. The increased advertising revenue was offset by higher newsprint expenses and costs associated with various initiatives.
Dow Jones' third quarter operating results increased from the same period a year ago due to 25% higher advertising revenue at and increased circulation revenue. These improvements were partially offset by lower information services revenue
The Wall Street Journal
.
Book Publishing
Higher sales at the General Books and the Children's divisions of HarperCollins led to positive segment operating income of $4 million compared to an operating loss of $8 million in the same period a year ago. Third quarter results included strong sales of by John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, by Lauren Conrad and the mass-market edition of by Janet Evanovich. During the quarter, HarperCollins had 61 books on bestseller list, including eight titles that reached the number one spot.
Game Change
Sweet Little Lies
Hero at Large
The New York Times
Other
Other reported a third quarter segment operating loss of $150 million, $62 million greater than the prior year. This increased loss reflects the absence of $60 million operating income from NDS resulting from the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in February 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS' operating results subsequent to February 5, 2009 is included within Equity earnings of affiliates. In addition, Digital Media Group operating losses increased from a year ago, principally due to lower search and advertising revenue.
 
 
REVIEW OF EQUITY EARNINGS (LOSSES) OF AFFILIATES' RESULTS
Fiscal 2010 third quarter earnings from affiliates were $181 million as compared to a loss of $40 million in the same period a year ago. This significant improvement reflects higher contributions from BSkyB due to a gain related to the partial sale of its ITV investment combined with the absence of a prior year write-down of the same investment.
The Company's share of equity earnings (losses) of affiliates is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date profit results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com.
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the third quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com.
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1  TOTAL SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME AND SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income (loss), and management uses total segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. Total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are non-GAAP measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures do not reflect cash available to fund requirements. These measures exclude items, such as impairment and restructuring charges, which are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization also excludes depreciation and amortization which are also significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance.
Management believes that total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business and provide investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of the Company's business and enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data.
Total segment operating income does not include: Impairment and restructuring charges, Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates, Interest expense, net, Interest income, Other, net, Income tax expense and Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization is defined as segment operating income (loss) plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments and eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense includes the depreciation of property and equipment, as well as amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. Amortization of cable distribution investments represents a reduction against revenues over the term of a carriage arrangement and, as such, it is excluded from segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.
 
 
The following table reconciles segment operating income before depreciation and amortization to income (loss) before income tax expense.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


