FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20101103163226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (the "Company") is filing herewith updated financial statements and other affected financial information for the periods included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 that reflect retrospective adjustments resulting from changes in the Company's segment reporting. The Company regularly reviews its segment reporting and classification. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company aggregated the previously reported Book Publishing segment, Integrated Marketing Services segment and the Newspapers and Information Services segment to report a new Publishing segment because of changes in how the Company manages and evaluates these businesses as a result of evolving industry trends.
Except as specifically noted in the filing, this Current Report on Form 8-K does not reflect events or developments thaoccurred after August 6, 2010, and does not modify or update the disclosures in any significant way other than as described above and set forth in the exhibits hereto. Without limiting the foregoing, this filing does not purport to update, amend or restate the information contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 for any information, uncertainties, transactions, risks, events or trends occurring, or known to management. More current information is contained in the Company's Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and other documents filed by the Company with the SEC subsequent to August 6, 2010. Revisions to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 included in this Current Report on Form 8-K as noted above supersede the corresponding portions of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.
t
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 3, 2010
 
 

 
Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-4 Nos. 333-122855, 333-131883, 333-143335, 333-149189, 333-145925, 333-159036 and 333-162539 and Form S-8 Nos. 333-120777, 333-120778, 333-112428, 333-51434, 333-126567, and 333-145925) of News Corporation of our report dated August 6, 2010, except for Note 19, as to which the date is November 3, 2010, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of News Corporation included in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
New York, New York
November 3, 2010

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Corporation is filing in this Current Report on Form 8-K its reclassified operating segment data for the quarters ended September 30, 2009, December 31, 2009, March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010 and the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. This reclassification has no impact on previously reported consolidated statements of operations.
This information is provided solely for the convenience of News Corporation's stockholders and should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, which should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on August 6, 2010.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
Background
News Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is a diversified global media company with operations in the following six industry segments: (i) Cable Network Programming; ii) Filmed Entertainment; (iii) Television; (iv) Direct Broadcast Satellite Television; (v) Publishing; and (vi) Other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America. For financial information regarding News Corporation's segments and operations in geographic areas, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 (the "Annual Report") to "we," "us," "our," "News Corporation" or the "Company" means News Corporation and its subsidiaries.
In December 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of Dow Jones & Company, Inc. ("Dow Jones") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 31, 2007, by and among the Company, Ruby Newco LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Ruby Newco"), Dow Jones and Diamond Merger Sub Corporation, as amended (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Dow Jones common stock was converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder, either (x) $60.00 in cash or (y) 2.8681 Class B common units of Ruby Newco. Each Class B common unit of Ruby Newco is convertible into a share of News Corporation Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class A Common Stock").
In February 2008, the Company closed the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement (the "Share Exchange Agreement") with Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty"), whereby Liberty exchanged its entire interest in the Company's common stock (approximately 325 million shares of Class A Common Stock and 188 million shares of News Corporation Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class B Common Stock")) for 100% of the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company whose holdings consisted of the Company's approximate 41% interest (approximately 470 million shares) in The DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DIRECTV") constituting the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV, three of the Company's Regional Sports Networks (FSN Northwest, FSN Pittsburgh and FSN Rocky Mountain) and approximately $625 million in cash.
In February 2009, the Company, two newly incorporated subsidiaries of funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP (the "Permira Newcos") and the Company's then majority-owned, publicly-held subsidiary, NDS Group plc ("NDS"), completed a transaction pursuant to which all issued and outstanding NDS Series A ordinary shares, including those represented by American Depositary Shares traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, were acquired for per share consideration of $63 in cash. As part of the transaction, approximately 67% of the NDS Series B ordinary shares held by the Company were exchanged for $63 per share in a mix of approximately $1.5 billion in cash and a $242 million vendor note. Immediately prior to the consummation of the transaction, the Company owned approximately 72% of NDS through its ownership of all of the outstanding NDS Series B ordinary shares. As a result of the transaction, NDS ceased to be a public company and the Permira Newcos and the Company now own approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively.
 
 
In June 2010, the Company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc ("BSkyB"), in which the Company currently has an approximate 39% interest, to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. The Company and the independent members of BSkyB's board of directors were unable to reach a mutually agreeable price at the time of the public announcement; however, the parties entered into a cooperation agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to work together to proceed with the regulatory process in order to facilitate a proposed transaction. There can be no assurance that the Company will make a final binding offer to BSkyB.
The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. Through its predecessor, the Company was incorporated in 1979 under the Company Act 1961 of South Australia, Australia. At June 30, 2010, the Company had approximately 51,000 full-time employees. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 and its telephone number is (212) 852-7000. The Company's website is . The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are available, free of charge, through the Company's website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Such reports may also be obtained without charge from the Company, and paper copies of any exhibits to such reports are also available for a reasonable fee per page charge to the requesting stockholder. Any materials that the Company filed with the SEC also may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (http://www.sec.gov).
www.newscorp.com
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document and the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report, including "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contain statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "predict," "believe" and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. More information regarding these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth under the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in this Annual Report. The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the SEC. This section should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report.
 
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
The Company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the six segments described below.
Cable Network Programming
The Company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators in the United States and internationally.
. FOX News owns and operates the FOX News Channel, a 24-hour all news national cable channel currently available to over 98 million U.S. households according to Nielsen Media Research, as well as the FOX Business Network which is currently available to over 56 million U.S. households.
FOX News
FOX News also produces a weekend political commentary show,, for broadcast on local FOX television stations throughout the United States. FOX News, through its FOX News Edge service, licenses news feeds to FOX Affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the United States and abroad. FOX News also produces and runs the websites, FOXNews.com and FOXBusiness.com, and owns and produces the national FOX News Radio Network, which licenses news updates, long form programs and the FOX News Talk Channel to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers.
FOX News Sunday
. Fox Sports Net, Inc. ("FSN, Inc.") is the largest regional sports network ("RSN") programmer in the United States, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. FSN, Inc.'s sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 12 RSNs, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the "FSN RSNs") and National Sports Programming, which operates FSN ("FSN"), a national sports programming service. FSN, Inc. also is affiliated with, through FSN, an additional nine RSNs that are not owned by FSN, Inc. (the "FSN Affiliated RSNs"). FSN provides the FSN RSNs and the FSN Affiliated RSNs with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. The FSN RSNs and the FSN Affiliated RSNs currently have approximately 84 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 68 of 82 U.S. professional sports teams in MLB, the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League; collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams.
FSN
. Currently reaching over 96 million U.S. households according to Nielsen Media Research, FX is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. FX's lineup for the 2010-2011 season includes the critically acclaimed , and . Also included in the 2010-2011 season line-up is the sixth season of the comedy series , the second season of and and the first season of , and . Current syndicated series include , and beginning in fall 2010,. During the 2010-2011 season, FX will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including ,,,,, and . FX has also acquired the telecast premiere rights to  for 2012. The Company also produces and distributes FX HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition.
FX
Rescue Me
Sons of Anarchy
Justified
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia
Archer
The League
Lights Out
Louie
Terriers
That 70s Show
Spin City, Malcolm in the Middle, The Bernie Mac Show
Two and a Half Men
Marley & Me
Iron Man
Hancock
Dr. Seuss' Horton Hears A Who!
Kung Fu Panda
Twilight
Slumdog Millionaire
Avatar
 
 
. Currently reaching nearly 76 million households in the United States according to Nielsen Media Research, SPEED brings viewers season-long coverage of NASCAR races, events and original programming (including exclusive coverage of the annual NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race and NASCAR Hall of Fame ceremonies). In addition, SPEED delivers programming from other top racing series, such as Formula One, Grand American Road Racing, American Le Mans Series, the 24 Hours of Le Mans, American Motorcycle Association, AMA Supercross, Monster Jam, World Superbike and MotoGP. SPEED's popular enthusiast series is a reality-based racing show in its fourth season, pitting amateur racers against each other in a unique grassroots drag racing format. In 2010, SPEED premiered three new enthusiast series, , and . SPEED also is distributed to subscribers in Mexico, Canada and Latin America. The Company also produces and distributes SPEED HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. In fiscal 2010, SPEED launched a new broadband network, SPEED2, which features live and on-demand streaming of over 200 hours of motorsports events online.
SPEED
PINKS All Out
Intersections
Stealth Rider
Battle of the Supercars
. FUEL TV is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. FUEL TV covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, BMX, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. Programming includes U.S. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective.
FUEL TV
. Fox College Sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, FCS Pacific, FCS Central and FCS Atlantic. Fox College Sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation's top collegiate conferences, coaches' shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the FSN RSNs and certain of the FSN Affiliated RSNs across the country.
Fox College Sports
. Fox Movie Channel ("FMC") is Hollywood's first and only studio-based movie network. FMC airs Twentieth Century Fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen.
Fox Movie Channel
. Fox Soccer Channel is an English-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. Top properties include the UEFA Champions League, English Premier League, Italian Serie A and Major League Soccer, along with daily soccer news programs, magazine shows and in depth coverage on the world's most popular sport. In January 2010, the Company launched Fox Soccer Channel HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition.
Fox Soccer Channel
. Launched in March 2010, Fox Soccer Plus is a new premium cable network showcasing nearly 700 exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions. Soccer events include matches from the UEFA Champions League, English Premier League, Italian Serie A, FA Cup, Coca-Cola Championships and Carling Cup. Rugby coverage includes matches from the Heineken Cup, Guinness Premiership, Magners League and SANZAR.
Fox Soccer Plus
. The Company has an approximate 33% equity interest in Fox Pan American Sports LLC ("FPAS"), with HM Capital Partners, LLC owning the remainder. FPAS owns and operates Spanish-language sports businesses, including the Fox Sports Latin America network (a Spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain Caribbean and Central and South American nations outside of Brazil) and Fox Sports en Espaol (the first Spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the United States).
Fox Pan American Sports
. The Company owns an approximate 49% interest in the Big Ten Network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the Big Ten Conference and Big Ten athletics, academics and related programming, and Big Ten Network HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in HD.
Big Ten Network
 
 
The Company holds an approximate 71% interest in NGC Network US LLC ("NGC Network"), which produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel and National Geographic Channel HD, Nat Geo Wild and Nat Geo Wild HD in the United States, with NGHT, Inc., a subsidiary of the National Geographic Society ("NGHT"), holding the remaining interest. National Geographic Channel and National Geographic Channel HD currently reach approximately 70 million households in the United States and Nat Geo Wild and Nat Geo Wild HD reach approximately 37 million subscribers in the United States according to Nielsen Media Research.
National Geographic U.S.
The National Geographic Channels air documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. The Nat Geo Wild channels air documentary programming featuring natural history.
FIC operates, develops and distributes primarily factual and general entertainment channels in various countries in Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa and Asia, including: the Fox Channel, Fox Life, FX, SPEED, Utilisma, Fox Crime, CULT, NEXT, FOX History & Entertainment, the Voyage Channel, FOX Sports, STAR WORLD and STAR MOVIES. These channels are distributed either in HD or in standard definition ("SD") or in certain cases, in both HD and SD.
Fox International Channels ("FIC").
FIC also owns a 52.2% interest in NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC (collectively "NGC International"), with NGHT holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of BSkyB holding a 21% interest. NGC International produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel in various international markets. NGC International also produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel HD, the Nat Geo Adventure channel (in both HD and SD), the Nat Geo Wild channel (in both HD and SD) and the Nat Geo Music channel in international markets. The National Geographic Channel is currently shown in 35 languages and in approximately 166 countries internationally, including the United States.
FIC owns a 55% equity interest in LAPTV, a partnership that distributes five premium pay television channels (Movie City, Movie City HD, City Mix, City Stars and City Vibe and their multiplexes) and one basic television channel (The Film Zone East and West) in Latin America (excluding Brazil). Such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of Twentieth Century Fox and three other studio partners in the English language with Spanish subtitles. FIC has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in LAPTV.
FIC also owns a majority equity interest in Elite Sports Limited, a company that owns and distributes BabyTV, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to over 65 countries outside of the United States.
FIC also manages Channel [V] Thailand in which the Company owns a 49% interest. Channel [V] Thailand owns a Thai language music channel and licenses its Channel [V] brand to a third party in Australia to operate a music channel.
In addition, FIC has a joint venture with CJ Media, a Korean media conglomerate for the distribution of the tvN channel, a 24-hour general entertainment channel featuring Korean content, such as original dramas, variety shows, reality and lifestyle programs.
. STAR India develops, produces and broadcasts 23 channels in eight languages, which are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television ("IPTV") and direct-to-home ("DTH") operators for distribution throughout Asia, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and North America to their subscribers. STAR India's primary sources of programming for its channels include
STAR India
 
original programming produced, commissioned or acquired by STAR India. STAR India also owns a Hindi film library comprised of approximately 1,000 titles, a South Indian languages film library comprised of approximately 2,065 titles, a Hindi television program library comprised of approximately 570 titles and a South Indian languages program library comprised of approximately 3,610 titles. STAR India's channels include the flagship Hindi general entertainment channel STAR PLUS, the Bengali general entertainment channel STAR JALSHA and the Marathi general entertainment channel STAR PRAVAH.
In addition, the Company owns an approximate 26% interest in Media Content & Communications Services (India) Private Limited, which owns and operates three "STAR"-branded Indian language 24-hour news and current affairs channels.
In January 2009, the Company expanded into South India regional programming by forming Asianet Communications Limited, a joint venture with Asianet TV Holdings Private Limited to provide television services for South Indian audiences. The joint venture consists of the Company's approximate 81% interest in the Tamil language channel VIJAY and the Company's approximate 75% interest in the Malayalam language channels ASIANET and ASIANET PLUS, the Kannada language channel SUVARNA and the Telugu language channel SITARA.
The Company also owns an approximate 26% stake in Balaji Telefilms Limited ("Balaji"), which is one of the largest television content production companies in India, the shares of which are listed on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai and the National Stock Exchange of India. Balaji currently produces serials broadcast on STAR PLUS and other general entertainment channels in India.
The Company also holds a 20% direct stake in Tata Sky Limited which owns and operates a DTH platform in India. The Company has a 50/50 joint venture with Den Digital Entertainment Networks Private Limited to operate a television channel distribution business in India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Bhutan that exclusively distributes STAR India's owned and affiliated channels in these territories.
The Company has expanded into television home shopping in India through a 50/50 joint venture with CJ O Shopping Co. Ltd., a leading home shopping company in South Korea and China.
. STAR China develops and broadcasts Chinese language television programming primarily in China on a free-to-air basis to local cable operators and three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions. Outside China, STAR China's television services are distributed on a pay television basis, primarily via satellite, cable and IPTV operators. STAR China's channels include XING KONG (distributed in mainland China and internationally) and Channel [V] (China). The programming for STAR China's channels is acquired from third party sources or is original programming commissioned by STAR China.
STAR China
. STAR Taiwan develops and broadcasts Chinese language television programming targeted at Chinese-speaking audiences in Taiwan and the rest of Asia on a pay television basis. STAR Taiwan's television services are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, IPTV and DTH operators in Asia and North America. STAR Taiwan's channels include STAR CHINESE CHANNEL, STAR CHINESE MOVIES, STAR CHINESE MOVIES 2 and Channel [V] Taiwan. The primary sources of programming for STAR Taiwan's channels include programming acquired from third party sources and original programming commissioned by STAR Taiwan. In addition, the Fortune Star division of STAR Taiwan sells television, new media, home video and other rights to its extensive contemporary Chinese film library comprised of over 750 titles.
STAR Taiwan
 
 
The Company has a 9.09% interest in Rotana Holding FZ-LLC ("Rotana"), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the Middle East and North Africa. The Company also has a 50% interest in Broadcast Middle East FZ-LLC ("BME"), with the other 50% interest held by Moby Media Holdings FZ-LLC. BME broadcasts Farsi language general entertainment programming across the Middle East under the "Farsi1" brand.
Middle East.
The Company owns a 50% interest in ESPN STAR Sports, with ESPN owning the remainder. ESPN STAR Sports is the leading sports broadcaster in Asia and operates 19 channels in different languages.
ESPN STAR Sports.
. The Company owns an approximate 18% interest in Phoenix, a company listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. Phoenix owns and operates Chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at Chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in Asia and Europe and in the United States. Phoenix also operates outdoor advertising and new media businesses.
Phoenix
Competition.
Cable network programming is another highly competitive business. Cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, DVDs, Internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. Important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts.
General.
FOX News Channel's primary competition comes from the cable networks CNN, MSNBC and CNN Headline News. Fox Business Network's primary competition comes from the cable networks CNBC and Bloomberg Television. FOX News Channel and FOX Business Network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks.
FOX News.
A number of basic and pay television programming services, such as ESPN and Versus, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the FSN RSNs' audience. FSN is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. On a national level, FSN's primary competitor is ESPN and, to a lesser extent, ESPN2 and Versus. In regional markets, the FSN RSNs compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors.
Sports programming operations.
In addition, the FSN RSNs and FSN compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. The FSN RSNs compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. FSN competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television "superstations" that distribute sports. Independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. Distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams' games on their systems. In certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by FSN RSNs.
 
 
FX faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as USA, TNT, Spike TV, HBO and Showtime, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as FX. FX also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming.
FX.
. Internationally, the Company's cable businesses compete with various local and foreign television services providers and distribution networks for audiences, content acquisition and distribution platforms.
International
. In India, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and STAR India's entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. STAR India also competes in India to acquire film and programming rights.
STAR India
Filmed Entertainment
The Company engages in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide.
Feature Film Production and Distribution
One of the world's largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, Fox Filmed Entertainment ("FFE") produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. During fiscal 2010, FFE placed 25 motion pictures in general release in the United States. The motion pictures of FFE are produced and/or distributed by the following units of FFE: Twentieth Century Fox and Fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; Fox Searchlight Pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; and Twentieth Century Fox Animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. In addition, Fox International Productions, Inc. co-produces and co-finances local-language motion pictures for distribution outside the United States. The motion pictures produced and/or distributed by FFE in the United States and international territories in fiscal 2010 included and. FFE has already released or currently plans to release approximately 25 motion pictures in the United States in fiscal 2011, including and
Avatar, Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs, Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel, Fantastic Mr. Fox, Date Night, The A-Team, (500) Days of Summer
Crazy Heart
Predators, Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps, Unstoppable, The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, Rio, X-Men: First Class, Rise of the Apes, 127 Hours, The Descendants
Cedar Rapids.
Pursuant to an agreement with Monarchy Enterprises Holdings B.V. ("MEH"), the parent company of New Regency in which the Company has a 20% interest, and certain of MEH's subsidiaries, FFE distributes certain New Regency films and all films co-financed by FFE and New Regency in all media worldwide, excluding a number of international territories with respect to television rights. Among its fiscal 2011 releases, FFE currently expects to distribute four films either fully financed by New Regency or co-financed by FFE and New Regency.
Motion picture companies, such as FFE, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. FFE derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the United States and Canada and markets outside of the United States and Canada ("international" markets);
 
(ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the Company. The Company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets.
The Company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film's release date in any given territory. The Company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies.
Through Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment LCC, the Company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of FFE, its affiliates and other producers in the United States, Canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of DVDs. In fiscal 2010, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,131 produced and acquired titles, including 22 new FFE film releases, approximately 802 catalog titles and approximately 307 television and non-theatrical titles. In international markets, the Company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 910 releases in fiscal 2010, including approximately 23 new FFE film releases, approximately 695 catalog titles and approximately 192 television and non-theatrical releases. In fiscal 2010, the Company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ("MGM"), releasing approximately 1,207 and 714 MGM home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and internationally, respectively, as well as its domestic home video distribution arrangement with Lions Gate, releasing approximately 1,909 Lions Gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. During fiscal 2010, the domestic home entertainment division released 201 Blu-ray high definition ("HD") disc format ("Blu-ray") titles, including 21 new FFE film releases, 155 catalog titles and 25 television and non-theatrical releases. In international markets, the Company released 149 Blu-ray titles, including 18 new FFE film releases and 131 catalog titles. The Company also distributed 75 Blu-ray titles (two new releases and 73 catalog titles) from MGM domestically and 47 titles (one new release and 46 catalog titles) internationally, and 126 Blu-ray titles from Lions Gate domestically.
Units of FFE license motion pictures and other programs in the United States, Canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services. The license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. Among third party license agreements that units of FFE have in place in the United States for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with Home Box Office, Inc. ("HBO"), providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through 2015, as well as arrangements with Starz Encore Group. The license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee's gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. In addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. Units of FFE also license motion pictures in the United States to direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") pay-per-view services operated by EchoStar Communications Corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by DIRECTV and iN Demand L.L.C. In addition, units of FFE license motion pictures
 
and other programs to third parties, including Apple Inc. ("Apple") and Amazon.com Inc., for electronic sell-through over the Internet, enabling consumers in the United States to acquire the right to retain permanently such programs. In international markets, units of FFE license motion pictures and other programming to leading third party pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services, as well as to pay television and video-on-demand services operated by various affiliated entities.
. Motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. The Company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public's interest in its products. The number of motion pictures released by the Company's competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the Company's shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the Company's motion pictures to succeed. The commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the Company is affected substantially by the public's unpredictable response to them. The competitive risks affecting the Company's home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the Company's competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as DVDs, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services.
Competition
The Company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the Company's programs. For a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the Company's programs, see " Intellectual Property."
Television Programming, Production and Distribution
. During fiscal 2010, TCFTV produced television programs for the FOX Broadcasting Company ("FOX"), FX Networks, LLC ("FX"), ABC Television Network ("ABC"), CBS Broadcasting, Inc. ("CBS"), NBC Television Network ("NBC"), Comedy Partners ("Comedy Central"), Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. ("TBS") and Arts & Entertainment Network ("A&E"). TCFTV currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: , , , , ,, , , , , , and for FOX; and for FX; for ABC; and for CBS; for NBC; for Comedy Central; for TBS and for A&E. Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. All other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by TCFTV, utilized by other units of the Company or sold to third parties.
Twentieth Century Fox Television ("TCFTV")
American Dad
Bob's Burgers
Bones
The Cleveland Show
Family Guy
Glee
Lie To Me
Lone Star
Raising Hope
Ride-Along
The Simpsons
Traffic Light
Terra Nova
Sons of Anarchy
Terriers
Modern Family
Chaos
How I Met Your Mother
Friends with Benefits
Futurama
Neighbors From Hell
Breakout Kings
Television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. As these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming also has increased. Therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. Successful U.S. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in Canadian and international markets, (ii) released in DVD box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the United States (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (iv) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (v) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. Typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and DBS programmers in the United States. The decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series' audience ratings.
 
 
 Twentieth Television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the United States. Twentieth Television distributes a program portfolio that includes the Company's library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the Company, as well as to basic cable networks. First-run programs distributed by Twentieth Television include: the game shows
Twentieth Television.
Are You Smarter Than A 5
th
Grader?
and; the court shows and ; and the 2010 summer test series, hosted by Craig Kilborn.
Don't Forget the Lyrics!
Divorce Court
Judge Alex
The Kilborn File
Twentieth Television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by Twentieth Television in its programs. Twentieth Television licenses such shows as , , , , and to cable and broadcast networks. Twentieth Television also manages and distributes the long running series, and , and sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators.
How I Met Your Mother
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia
My Name Is Earl
Family Guy
American Dad, King of the Hill, The Unit, M*A*S*H, Boston Legal, Bones, Malcolm in the Middle
The Simpsons
COPS
America's Most Wanted
. FtvS is a program supplier to the major U.S. and international broadcast and cable networks. FtvS is currently producing the series and for USA Network, for FOX, for ABC, for A&E, for FX and andfor E!. Other FtvS international co-productions include , co-produced with Televisa for NBC.
Fox Television Studios ("FtvS")
Burn Notice
White Collar
The Good Guys
The Gates
The Glades
Lights Out
Kendra, Holly's World
The Girls Next Door
Persons Unknown
. Similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. The Company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public's interest in its products. In addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties.
Competition
Motion Picture and Television Library
The Company's motion picture and television library (the "Fox Library") consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. Motion pictures in the Fox Library include many successful and well-known titles, such as , , , , the series, the series, , the series, , , , , the series, the series, and as well as seven of the top 30 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are , (together with Paramount Pictures Corporation), , , , and .
The Sound of Music
Mrs. Doubtfire
Dr. Dolittle
Home Alone
Star Wars
X-Men
Independence Day, The Day After Tomorrow
Ice Age
Sideways
Walk the Line
The Devil Wears Prada
Little Miss Sunshine
Night at the Museum
Alvin and the Chipmunks
Slumdog Millionaire
Taken,
Avatar
Titanic
Star Wars
Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace
Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith
Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones
Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi
The Fox Library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. The television programming in the Fox Library consists of such classic series as
24, King of the Hill, Prison Break, Boston Legal, My Name is Earl, The Mary Tyler Moore Show, M*A*S*H, Hill Street Blues, Doogie Howser, M.D., L.A. Law, The Wonder Years, The Practice, Ally McBeal, Angel, Dharma &
 
and as well as prior seasons of such current series as and
Greg, In Living Color, The X-Files, Buffy the Vampire Slayer
NYPD Blue,
The Simpsons, Bones, Family Guy, The Cleveland Show, Glee, Modern Family, Futurama, How I Met Your Mother, Sons of Anarchy, American Dad
Lie To Me.
Television
The Company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the broadcasting of network programming in the United States.
Fox Television Stations
Fox Television Stations, Inc. ("Fox Television Stations") owns and operates 27 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ("DMAs"). Fox Television Stations owns and operates two stations in nine DMAs, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the first, second and third largest DMAs, respectively.
Of the 27 full power stations, 17 stations are affiliates of FOX ("FOX Affiliates"). For a description of the programming offered to FOX Affiliates, see " FOX Broadcasting Company." In addition, Fox Television Stations owns and operates ten stations affiliated with MyNetworkTV Programming Distribution Service, Inc. ("MyNetworkTV").
The following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations. Unless otherwise noted, all stations are FOX Affiliates.
 
 
Source: Nielsen Media Research, January 2010
 
 
FOX Broadcasting Company ("FOX")
FOX has 203 FOX Affiliates, including the 17 stations owned and operated by the Company, which reach approximately 99% of all U.S. television households. In general, each week FOX regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on Saturday. FOX's prime-time programming features such series as, ,,and ; unscripted series such asand ; and various specials. In addition, a significant component of FOX's programming consists of sports programming, with FOX providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the National Football Conference of the National Football League (the "NFL") and Major League Baseball ("MLB"), as well as live coverage of the Sprint Cup Series of the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ("NASCAR"). In fiscal 2011, FOX will broadcast the Pro Bowl and Super Bowl XLV. FOX also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on Saturday mornings provided by Worldlink Ventures ("Worldlink"), a media sales firm. FOX's agreement with Worldlink extends through the 2010-2011 broadcast season.
House
The Simpsons
Bones
Fringe
Glee
American Idol
So You Think You Can Dance
FOX's prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. During the 2009-2010 traditional September to May broadcast season, FOX ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults ages 18 to 49 (based on Live+7 ratings, FOX had a 3.7 rating and a 10 share, ABC had a 2.7 rating and an 7 share, CBS had a 3.2 rating and a 9 share and NBC had a 2.7 rating and a 7 share). The median age of the FOX viewer is 45 years, as compared to 49 years for NBC, 50 years for ABC and 53 years for CBS.
 
 
FOX obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. The terms of those agreements generally provide FOX with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons.
National sports programming, such as the NFL, MLB and NASCAR programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. FOX's current licenses with the NFL, MLB and NASCAR extend until the 2013 NFL season, the 2013 MLB season and the 2014 NASCAR season. In addition, FOXSports.com provides a comprehensive mix of news, exclusive analysis, fantasy games and one of the Internet's largest collections of online sports video. FOXSports.com on MSN had an average of 26 million unique users and 930 million page views in the United States during June 2010 according to comScore Media Metrix.
FOX provides programming to the FOX Affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. Such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. These affiliation agreements generally require FOX Affiliates to carry FOX programming in all time periods in which FOX programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements.
MyNetworkTV
At the beginning of the 2009-2010 television season, MyNetworkTV transitioned to a new programming distribution service model distributing two hours per night of original and off-network programming for Twentieth Television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. As of June 30, 2010, MyNetworkTV had 173 affiliates, including 10 affiliates owned by the Company, reaching approximately 94% of U.S. households.
The network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. FOX and MyNetworkTV compete with other broadcast networks, such as ABC, NBC, CBS and The CW Television Network, independent television stations, cable and DBS program services, as well as other media, including DVDs, digital video recorders ("DVR"), video games, print and the Internet for audiences, programming and, in the case of FOX, advertising revenues. In addition, FOX and MyNetworkTV compete with other broadcast networks and other programming distribution services to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the United States. ABC, NBC and CBS each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than FOX and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than FOX. In addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace.
Competition.
Each of the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and Internet websites. All of the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations are located in highly competitive markets. Additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. Competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, DBS services and other media and general economic conditions. Competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public that is often difficult to predict.
 
 
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
The Company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, SKY Italia. The Company also owns significant equity interests in BSkyB and Sky Deutschland AG (formerly Premiere AG) ("Sky Deutschland"), which are engaged in the DBS business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading "Equity Interests").
SKY Italia
SKY Italia currently distributes over 180 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in Italy. This programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and SKY Italia's original programming, such as, Italy's first 24-hour news channel. As of June 30, 2010, SKY Italia had approximately 4.7 million subscribers.
SKY TG 24
. The number of pay television subscribers with services in Italy, other than SKY Italia, is growing and is expected to continue to increase. SKY Italia's competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband Internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ("DTT") services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. Competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment that requires SKY Italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the SKY Italia platform. In addition, since 2003, SKY Italia had been prohibited from owning a DTT frequency or providing a pay television DTT offer under a commitment made to the European Commission (the "EC") through December 31, 2011. In July 2010, the EC modified this restriction to allow SKY Italia to bid for one DTT frequency. However, if SKY Italia were to successfully bid for such a DTT frequency, the EC would limit SKY Italia's use of such frequency to exclusively free-to-air channels through 2015. For a further discussion of the government regulations that SKY Italia is subject to, see "Government Regulation Cable Network Programming and Direct Broadcast Satellite Television."
Competition
Publishing
The Company is engaged in the publishing business, primarily through its subsidiaries News International, News Limited, Dow Jones, The New York Post, Harper Collins Publishers and News America Marketing Group. The Company evaluates these businesses collectively as a result of evolving trends in the overall publishing industry including digital distribution.
News International Limited ("News International")
News International publishes , , and in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the United Kingdom. Both , a daily published Monday through Saturday, and are leading quality newspapers. , published each morning Monday through Saturday, and , published on Sunday, are both popular, mass market newspapers. The average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was approximately:  507,000;  1,118,000;  2,978,000; and  2,909,000.
The Times
The Sunday Times
The Sun
News of the World
The Times
The Sunday Times,
The Sun
News of the World
The Times
The Sunday Times
The Sun
News of the World
 
 
The printing of all four of News International's national newspapers (except Saturday and Sunday supplements) takes place principally in its four printing facilities located in England, Scotland and Ireland.
News International also publishes , a weekly literary review.
The Times Literary Supplement
News Limited
News Limited is the largest newspaper publisher in Australia, owning approximately 146 daily, Sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which four are free commuter titles and 101 are suburban publications (including 16 of which News Limited has a 50% interest). News Limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in Australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major Australian cities of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. News Limited's daily and Sunday newspapers account for more than 70% of the total circulation of all daily and Sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in Australia.
News Limited's principal daily newspapers in Australia are:, published in Sydney; the, published in Melbourne; published in Brisbane; , published in Adelaide; , published in Hobart; and the , published in Darwin. , which is Australia's only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in six cities and distributed nationwide. News Limited's other principal daily newspapers in Australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. The average Monday to Friday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2010 was approximately as follows:  133,000;  367,000; the  517,000;  214,000;  184,000;  46,000; and the  21,000. The average Saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2010 was approximately as follows:  304,000;  326,000; the  508,000;  298,000;  251,000;  62,000; and the  32,000.
The Australian; The Daily Telegraph
Herald Sun
The Courier-Mail,
The Advertiser
The Mercury
Northern Territory News
The Australian
The Australian
The Daily Telegraph
Herald Sun
The Courier-Mail
The Advertiser
The Mercury
Northern Territory News
The Weekend Australian
The Daily Telegraph
Herald Sun
The Courier-Mail
The Advertiser
The Mercury
Northern Territory News
News Limited's principal Sunday newspapers in Australia are:, published in Sydney; the, published in Melbourne; published in Brisbane; the, published in Adelaide; , published in Perth; the , published in Hobart; and the published in Darwin. All these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan Sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. The average paid circulation of each of these Sunday newspapers during fiscal 2010 was approximately as follows:  641,000; the  609,000;)  535,000; the  303,000;  316,000; the  59,000; and the  22,000.
The Sunday Telegraph
Sunday Herald Sun
The Sunday Mail,
Sunday Mail
The Sunday Times
Sunday Tasmanian
Sunday Territorian,
The Sunday Telegraph
Sunday Herald Sun
The Sunday Mail (Brisbane
Sunday Mail (Adelaide)
The Sunday Times
Sunday Tasmanian
Sunday Territorian
The other newspapers that News Limited owns and publishes in Australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. The majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. In the Sydney suburban markets, News Limited owns 21 weekly newspapers; in Melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in Brisbane, 20 weekly newspapers; in Adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in Perth, News Limited's 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. The aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended March 31, 2010 was approximately 5,036,000 homes.
 
 
In addition to these newspapers, News Limited also publishes three other publications (two monthlies and one weekly) with an average circulation for the six months ended March 31, 2010 of approximately 100,000 homes for the monthly titles and approximately 40,000 for the weekly title.
News Limited's suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. News Limited's other newspapers in Australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas.
Except for 33 of its suburban newspapers and one regional newspapers, News Limited's Australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the Company.
Dow Jones
Dow Jones is a global provider of news and business information, with newspaper, newswire, website, newsletter, magazine, database, conference, radio and video businesses. Dow Jones offers products targeting both individual consumer and business and institutional customers, including , Dow Jones Newswires, Dow Jones Factiva, , MarketWatch, and other products.Products targeting business and institutional customers, including Dow Jones Newswires and Dow Jones Factiva, combine news and information with technology and tools designed to inform decisions and to aid awareness, research and understanding. The Dow Jones Local Media Group publishes community newspapers, websites and other products in six U.S. states.
The Wall Street Journal
Barron's
SmartMoney
. is available in print, online at WSJ.com, and on mobile devices such as phones, e-readers and iPads. The print edition of is one of the largest newspapers in the United States, with an average circulation during fiscal 2010 of 1.8 million; and WSJ.com is the largest paid subscription news website on the Internet, with over one million subscribers as of June 30, 2010. WSJ.com, which offers both free and premium content, also averaged more than 22 million visitors per month during fiscal 2010 according to Omniture. The Wall Street Journal's three major national print editions are produced at plants around the United States, including 11 owned by the Company. sells regional advertising in 21 regional print editions and pre-printed advertisements in various subsets of the print circulation. In April 2010, launched a new regional edition for the New York City area called Greater New York.
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
. is available in print, online at Barrons.com, and on mobile devices. caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. Its print edition is published weekly. In fiscal 2010, print edition had an average paid weekly circulation of 303,000 and Barrons.com had more than 150,000 paid subscribers. print edition is produced at plants around the United States, including at 11 owned by the Company.
Barron's
Barron's
Barron's
Barron's
Barron's
. publishes news and information focusing on personal finance, and is available in print, online at SmartMoney.com, and on mobile devices. The print edition of is published monthly and, in fiscal 2010, had average monthly paid circulation of more than 800,000.
SmartMoney
Smart Money
Smart Money
("WSDN"). WSDN comprises business and financial news websites and mobile applications. In addition to WSJ.com, Barrons.com and SmartMoney.com, discussed above, WSJDN includes Marketwatch.com, AllThingsD.com and related sites. In fiscal 2010, the WSDN averaged more than 33 million visitors per month with more than 400 million page views according to Omniture. MarketWatch.com is an investing and financial news site targeting active investors and averaged more than 9 million visitors per month during fiscal 2010 according to Omniture. AllThingsD.com is a personal technology site that features breaking technology news, in-depth coverage of Silicon Valley and the media industry, and product reviews and analysis.
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network
 
 
. print edition, which had an average circulation of 73,000 during fiscal 2010, is headquartered in London and printed in Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom. print edition, which had an average circulation of 82,000 during fiscal 2010, is headquartered in Hong Kong and printed in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. Regional coverage from and is also available online at WSJ.com. Dow Jones also publishes , which provide Wall Street Journal pages and/or content in local languages.
International Editions of The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal Europe
The Wall Street Journal Asia
The Wall Street Journal Europe
The Wall Street Journal Asia
The Wall Street Journal Special Editions
("Factiva")Factiva provides news and business information with search and discovery technology and tools to assist business and institutional customers with research, awareness and decision-making. Factiva had over 1.8 million paying customers worldwide as of June 30, 2010.
Dow Jones Factiva
.
Dow Jones Newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information for over 400,000 financial professionals around the world as of June 30, 2010. It publishes over 4,000 news items in multiple languages each day, including breaking news, analysis, commentary and statistical data.
Dow Jones Newswires.
In March 2010, Dow Jones and CME Group Inc. ("CME") formed a joint venture to operate a global financial index service business, to which Dow Jones contributed its Dow Jones Indexes business, including the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and CME contributed a business that provides certain market data services. Dow Jones and CME own 10% and 90% of the venture, respectively.
Dow Jones Indexes.
The Dow Jones Local Media business publishes local media print publications, including eight general interest dailies published in California, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Oregon and Pennsylvania, and related local websites. During fiscal 2010, average print circulation for these dailies was 234,000, with Sunday circulation of 272,000. The Dow Jones Local Media business also publishes 14 weekly newspapers and more than 30 other publications.
Dow Jones Local Media.
Dow Jones VentureSource, which targets business and institutional customers, is a database for venture capital and private equity markets tracking key developments of more than 47,000 venture-backed companies and 8,800 private capital firms world-wide. Dow Jones Watchlist helps compliance professionals identify high-risk clients and business associates.eFinancialNews Holdings Ltd., based in London, serves the European financial services industry with print, online, training and events businesses. provides business and professional readers the specialized news and information most of interest to them. Dow Jones' also distributes news and information to individual consumers through other channels of content distribution, including: television, radio/audio, online video, consumer electronic licensing, and classroom, campus and Sunday editions, and WSJ. magazine. Dow Jones also owns an interest in Vedomosti, a joint venture owned equally by Dow Jones, Pearson Plc and Independent Media, which publishes a Russian language business daily. Vedomosti had average circulation of 54,000 during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, and includes original content and content from and the translated into Russian.
Other Products and Distribution Channels.
The Wall Street Journal Professional Edition
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
Financial Times
New York Post
(the "") is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and primarily distributed in the New York metropolitan area, the Northeast, Florida and California. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the newspaper had an average weekday circulation of approximately 510,000. The Company prints the in a printing facility in the Bronx, New York and uses third party printers in its other markets in the United States.
The New York Post
Post
Post
 
 
The Company's Community Newspaper Group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the New York metropolitan area.
Harper Collins Publishers
HarperCollins Publishers ("HarperCollins") is engaged in English language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world's largest English language book publishers. HarperCollins' principal businesses are HarperCollins Publishers LLC ("HarperCollins U.S."), headquartered in New York, HarperCollins Publishers Limited, headquartered in London, and The Zondervan Corporation LLC, headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan. HarperCollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. In the United Kingdom, HarperCollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well.
During fiscal 2010, HarperCollins U.S. had 164 titles on the bestseller list, with 19 titles hitting number one, including by Sarah Palin, by John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner, by Garth Stein by Barbara Kingsolver, by Maurice Sendak, by Candace Bushnell, by Jane O'Connor, by L.J. Smith, and by Lauren Conrad.
New York Times
Going Rogue
Game Change
Superfreakonomics
The Art of Racing in the Rain
, The Lacuna
Where the Wild Things Are
The Carrie Diaries
Fancy Nancy: Splendiferous Christmas
The Vampire Diaries: Nightfall
Sweet Little Lies: An L.A. Candy Novel
News America Marketing Group
News America Marketing Group ("NAMG") publishes free-standing insert publications and provides in-store marketing products and services.
NAMG is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the United States. Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local Sunday newspapers. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAMG to produce free-standing inserts, and NAMG contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers' Sunday editions. NAMG produces over 69 million free-standing inserts more than 40 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,600 Sunday newspapers throughout the United States. NAMG, through an affiliate, also produces over eight million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 200 Canadian newspapers in Canada.
NAMG is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 55,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers worldwide.
SmartSource is the brand name that is linked with NAMG's vast assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts, NAMG's instant coupon machines and various shelf advertising products. The SmartSource brand currently reaches approximately 152 million consumers weekly.
The SmartSource iGroup manages NAMG's portfolio of database marketing and on-line marketing products and services. The database marketing business, branded SmartSource Direct, provides database marketing and technology solutions for both retailers and manufacturers. The SmartSource Savings Network, which includes SmartSource.com, is an Internet-based network of approximately 250 newspaper, retailer and lifestyle sites connected through a common platform that currently delivers printable coupons, samples and other consumer marketing to an audience of approximately 65 million consumers.
 
 
Competition
The newspapers, magazines and online publications of the Company that target individual consumers compete for readership and advertising with a variety of print and digital media. The competition includes local and national newspapers, as well as wholly web-based media, along with television, radio and other communications media.
Competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. The success of the newspapers published by the Company in competing with newspapers and other media for advertising depends upon advertisers' judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. Competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. Such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics.
In recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenues. This is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources, and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper. The Company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the newspaper industry.
Online publications, as well as print publications, compete with other websites that offer continuously updated coverage of business news, as well as licensing of electronic content. Unlike WSJ.com, most of the Company's competitors currently do not, for the most part, utilize an online paid subscription model. Competitors of Dow Jones' online publications include FT.com, New York Times Digital, TheStreet.com, Bloomberg, Forbes.com, Yahoo!Finance, CNET, CNN Money, MSNMoney/CNBC and Google Finance.
Dow Jones Newswires competes with other global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg L.P., as well as many Internet-based providers of financial news and information. Dow Jones Factiva competes with various business information service providers, including LexisNexis, Thomson Reuters, Hoover's and OneSource. Factiva also competes with various Internet-based information search services such as Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!.
The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and has recently seen technological innovations, including electronic book devices and other entrants, such as Google and Apple. HarperCollins competes with other large publishers, such as Random House, Penguin Group, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. In addition, HarperCollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources.
 
 
NAMG competes against other providers of marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of traditional and digital markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption.
Other
Digital Media Businesses
The Company's digital media businesses include MySpace, IGN Entertainment, Inc. ("IGN"), Fox Audience Network ("FAN"), and other internet properties. These businesses develop and promote content and experiences for internet audiences and generate revenue through internet advertising, sponsorships, subscriptions and e-commerce.
MySpace is a technology company enabling the discovery of content and people, and a platform for enabling audience development and direct fan communication for artists, including musicians, comedians, filmmakers and authors. MySpace had nearly 70 million unique U.S. users and 101 million unique global users in June 2010 according to comScore Media Metrix. MySpace Mobile is one of the world's largest mobile experience publishers, providing a wide portfolio of applications across multiple devices, including the iPhone, iPad, Android and Blackberry. MySpace Games provides a social gaming platform that enables third party game publishers to offer their games within MySpace. MySpace Video distributes premium and user-generated video content online within a social environment where users can view, create and share videos with their friends.
MySpace Music, LLC ("MySpace Music") is a joint venture among MySpace, Sony BMG Music Entertainment, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, Universal Music Group Warner Music Group and EMI Group/Capitol Records. MySpace Music combines the MySpace music community with comprehensive catalogues of music content, offering custom profiles for musicians, analytics and business metrics for musicians, free music streaming, social playlists and top charts for regional and global music activities.
IGN Entertainment, Inc.'s ("IGN") network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related Internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the Internet. IGN's Games sites (IGN.com, GameSpy, FilePlanet, TeamXbox and others) is the number one gaming information network on the Internet with over 14.2 million unique users and 278 million page views in the United States in June 2010 according to comScore Media Metrix. In addition, IGN's Direct2Drive is a digital distribution site and IGN's GameSpy Technology group provides technology for online game play in video games. IGN also owns and operates one of the leading men's lifestyle websites, AskMen.com.
FAN is an online advertising network and technology services provider. FAN provides these services by aggregating audiences and advertising inventory across a network of both Company-owned and other internet sites. FAN's MyAds platform provides self-serve tools that help small and medium businesses, search engine marketing companies and other marketers to build and manage their own display advertising campaigns.
. These digital media businesses compete for advertisers, users and traffic with other Internet sites and offline entertainment and advertising options. These businesses develop new tools and features to remain competitive. These new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with these digital media businesses.
Competition
 
 
News Outdoor
The Company owns a 79% interest in the News Outdoor Group ("News Outdoor") which operates the largest outdoor advertising company in Russia, as well as companies in Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic and Ukraine. In certain limited circumstances, the minority stockholders of News Outdoor have the right to sell, and the Company has the right to purchase, the minority interests at fair market value. In June 2010, News Outdoor entered into an agreement to sell its Polish outdoor advertising business, which is subject to Polish anti-trust approval. The Company is currently exploring the possible sale of the News Outdoor business.
Other Operations
The Company operates Fox Mobile Group ("FMG"), which includes Jamba (known as Jamster in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other English-speaking territories), a leading international provider of mobile entertainment, offering mobile products directly via mobile phones, including branded content from content providers around the world. Such content includes music, mobile games, video and original content made exclusively for use on mobile phones. Jamba currently distributes mobile content to consumers in over 15 territories around the world. The Company is currently exploring the possible sale of the FMG business.
The Company has interests in FOX TV in Turkey and Channel 10 in Israel, which are free-to-air, general entertainment television stations.
News Digital Media is the Company's Australian online division. In addition to maintaining the Company's Australian websites, News Digital Media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in Australia. News Digital Media sites include carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, MOSHTIX.com.au, GetPrice.com.au and truelocal.com.au. News Digital Media also has a 50% stake in CareerOne.com.au.
Equity Interests
BSkyB
The Company holds an approximate 39% interest in BSkyB. BSkyB's ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol "BSY." BSkyB operates the leading pay television broadcast service in the United Kingdom and Ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. BSkyB acquires and commissions programming to broadcast on its own channels and supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the United Kingdom and Ireland. BSkyB also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to DTH subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of DSL subscribers. In June 2010, the Company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of BSkyB to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. The Company and the independent members of BSkyB's board of directors were unable to reach a mutually agreeable price at the time of the public announcement; however, the parties entered into a cooperation agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to work together to proceed with the regulatory process in order to facilitate a proposed transaction.
 
 
NDS
The Company holds an approximate 49% interest in NDS. NDS creates technologies and applications that enable pay television operators to deliver digital content to televisions, set-top boxes, DVRs, personal computers, portable media players, removable media and other mobile devices securely.
FOXTEL
The Company, Telstra Corporation Limited, an Australian telecommunications company, and Consolidated Media Holdings, an Australian media and entertainment company, own and operate FOXTEL, a cable and satellite television service in Australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. At June 30, 2010, FOXTEL had approximately 1.6 million managed subscribers (including subscribers to Optus, an Australian telecommunications company). At June 30, 2010, 100% of the FOXTEL managed subscriber base was connected to FOXTEL's digital service, which delivers over 150 channels on cable and satellite.
Other Investments
The Company owns an approximate 44% interest in Sky Network Television Limited, a land-linked UHF network and digital DBS service in New Zealand.
SkyNZ.
. The Company has an approximate 32% equity interest in Hulu, LLC ("Hulu") which operates an online video service that offers video content from Fox, NBC Universal, The Walt Disney Company and over 100 other third party content licensors. Hulu's premium programming is available at Hulu.com and over 35 destination sites online, including AOL, IMDb, MSN, MySpace and Yahoo!.
Hulu
. The Company owns an approximate 45% equity interest in Sky Deutschland, the leading satellite pay television operator in Germany and Austria. On August 2, 2010, the Company agreed to backstop 340 million (approximately $448 million) of financing measures that are being initiated by Sky Deutschland. The financing measures are structured such that the Company's shareholding in Sky Deutschland will not exceed 49.9% unless the Company elects to do so. The rights offering of up to 269.6 million newly issued registered shares may be combined with a bond issued to the Company, that is convertible for up to 53.9 million underlying Sky Deutschland shares, and/or a loan provided by the Company. The Company will have the right to convert the bond into equity at any time following a 40-day holding period, subject to certain black-out periods. If not converted, the Company will have the option to redeem the bond for cash upon its maturity in four years. The financing measures are expected to be completed by no later than January 31, 2011.
Sky Deutschland
Government Regulation
General
Various aspects of the Company's activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company's products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the Company.
 
 
Cable Network Programming and Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
FCC regulations adopted pursuant to the 1992 Cable Act (the "Program Access Rules") prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. The Program Access Rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing MVPDs in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. The cable networks operated by the Company are not currently subject to the Program Access Rules.
United States.
The Company broadcasts television programming over a "footprint" covering approximately 53 Asian countries. Most countries in which the Company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. Government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently in each country. At one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. Some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. At the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution.
Asia.
Most television services within Asia, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements. In addition, most countries in which the Company operates control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as the Company, are subject. Certain countries also require a minimum percentage of local content. Other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming.
In India, private satellite dish ownership, including DTH, is allowed. Television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through DTH and IPTV delivery. Terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations.
India.
All cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. Retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as STAR India's channels, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including censorship codes. The Indian government requires that certain media content, whether produced in India or abroad, be certified by the Central Board of Film Certification prior to exhibition in India and also places certain restrictions on advertising content.
Limits are imposed by the Indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for certain channels, including the Company's channels. Further, cable operators are required to provide pay television channels at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters' share is restricted to 45%. The wholesale and retail pricing tariffs are presently under review consequent to intervention by the Indian courts. While there is no tariff regulation for DTH, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to DTH platforms at 50% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators. Broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters.
 
 
In mainland China, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels, government and foreign institutions that can receive only authorized broadcasts. There is a quota on the amount of foreign content that local television stations may broadcast. Foreign satellite channels are not subject to such content restriction but they may only be distributed in three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels or local operators that have received special approval to retransmit foreign satellite channels. In addition, local operators may only broadcast and transmit channels that carry content that fall within the genre of the government approval or license.
China.
In Taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. The maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. Cable television operators offer analog basic channels in a single package and digital premium channels in packages or on an  la carte basis as a buy through to their basic analog service. All channels offered in Taiwan must be licensed. Retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content.
Taiwan.
Additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to the Company are restrictions on foreign investment in platform, television programming, production or channel businesses, uplink-downlink licensing regulations, content protection under copyright or communications law, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming and anti-competition or anti-trust legislation.
The sectors in which the Company operates in Europe are subject to both general competition laws and sector specific regulation. The regulatory regime applicable to the electronic communications and broadcasting sectors is, to a large extent, based on European Union ("EU") law comprised in various EU directives that require EU member states to adopt national legislation to give effect to the directives' objectives, while leaving the precise manner and form of the national legislation to the discretion of each member state. The Electronic Communications Directives regulate the provision of communication services, including networks and transmission services that are involved in the broadcasting of television services as well as the provisions of services and facilities associated with the operation of digital television platforms. The AudioVisual Media Services Directive sets out the basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting activity, including broadcasting licensing, advertising and content regulation.
Europe.
In connection with the Company's acquisition of Telepi Spa and Stream Spa to form SKY Italia in 2003, the EC placed certain regulatory restrictions on the operations of SKY Italia through December 31, 2011. These restrictions require SKY Italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the SKY Italia platform. In addition, SKY Italia was prohibited from providing a pay television DTT offer and was prohibited from owning a DTT frequency. In July 2010, the EC modified this restriction to allow SKY Italia to bid for one DTT frequency. However, if SKY Italia were to successfully bid for such a DTT frequency, the EC would limit SKY Italia's use of such frequency to exclusively free-to-air channels through 2015.
Filmed Entertainment
FFE is subject to the provisions of so-called "trade practice laws" in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. These laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by
United States.
 
exhibitors. Further, pursuant to various consent judgments, FFE and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the United States, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters.
In countries outside of the United States, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of FFE to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of U.S. products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the World Trade Organization's General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and General Agreement on Trade and Services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the European Union.
Other International Regulation.
Television
In general, the television broadcast industry in the United States is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The FCC regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act").
The Communications Act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. Under the Communications Act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. After considering these factors, the FCC may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. Fox Television Stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. Six of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. On June 13, 2007 and May 15, 2008, Fox Television Stations entered into agreements with the FCC that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to FCC or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts or (ii) inquiries from the FCC regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules.
For information on the television stations owned and operated by the Company, see "Fox Television Stations" above.
On June 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease transmission in analog and convert to all digital broadcasts ("DTV"). By that date, the 27 stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations terminated their analog transmissions and, as required by law, each station surrendered one of the two broadcast channels it had been allotted in order to facilitate the transition to
 
DTV. All Fox Television Stations continue to transmit digital signals on their remaining channels. Under FCC rules, television stations may use their digital channel to broadcast HD digital programming and "multicast" several streams of standard definition digital programming and/or offer mobile digital television channels. Broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free-to-air program service. Fox Television Stations is currently formulating plans for use of its digital channels. It is difficult to assess the impact of cessation of analog broadcasting and how the conversion to DTV will affect Fox Television Stations' business.
In March 2010, the FCC delivered its national Broadband Plan to Congress, which reviews the nation's broadband Internet infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives to spur broadband deployment and use. In order to free up more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the Broadband Plan proposes to make spectrum available, including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and "repacking" of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. If voluntary measures fail to yield the amount of spectrum the FCC deems necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the Broadband Plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. The broadcast industry is exploring additional uses for currently allocated spectrum, such as mobile delivery of digital video and print content, to demonstrate that broadcasters need to retain all of their spectrum in order to bring valuable services to consumers. The FCC is expected to launch rulemaking proceedings on its spectrum proposals during the third quarter of calendar 2010; some of the proposals would also require Congressional action. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the Broadband Plan or its effect on the Company.
On June 2, 2003, the FCC concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 Telecom Act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the "June 2003 Order"). In the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2004, Congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the UHF Discount, 39% of U.S. television households.
Several parties appealed the June 2003 Order. The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the "Third Circuit") stayed the effectiveness of the new rules and, on June 24, 2004, remanded the FCC's June 2003 Order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the FCC had made to its ownership regulations. On February 4, 2008, the FCC issued an order that concluded its 2006 review of its broadcast ownership regulations and addressed the issues raised by the Third Circuit's remand (the "February 2008 Order"). The Commission decided there should be no changes to its rules relating to the ownership of multiple television stations in the same market. Those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate DMAs; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same DMA if their Grade B coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the DMA after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. On the question of common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market, the Commission modified its rules to create a presumption that such combinations are in the public interest in the top 20 DMAs provided (i) only one television station and one newspaper are involved; (ii) at least eight "major media voices" will remain in the DMA after the combination; and (iii) the television station is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. Any other newspaper/broadcast combination is presumed to be inconsistent with the public interest. The presumption may be overcome if certain criteria enumerated by
 
the FCC are satisfied. The February 2008 Order was appealed by several parties, including the Company and the case is currently pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On March 23, 2010, the Third Circuit lifted its stay of the February 2008 Order and ordered briefs on the appeal to be filed. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the Court's action on this appeal or its effect on the Company.
Fox Television Stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by Congress. Fox Television Stations retains an attributable interest in the and two television stations in the New York DMA. On October 6, 2006, the FCC reaffirmed the Company's permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the and WNYW(TV), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the and WWOR-TV (the "October 2006 Order"). The WWOR-TV/ combination is not entitled to a positive presumption under the FCC's revised newspaper cross-ownership rule because of the Company's ownership of a second television station in the New York DMA. The Company is seeking a permanent waiver of the prohibition from the FCC on the grounds that it satisfies the criteria to overcome the negative presumption contained in the new rule. Parties opposed to the October 2006 Order filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC, which was denied on May 22, 2009. Other opponents of the October 2006 Order have asked the FCC to reconsider its May 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the Company's request for a permanent waiver. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the FCC's action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the Company.
Post
Post
Post
Post
FCC regulations implementing the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act") require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station's market ("must carry") or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ("retransmission consent"). Generally, the Company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations. On November 30, 2007, the FCC resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are required to ensure that all "must carry" television signals remain viewable in homes with only analog equipment. In addition, the FCC reaffirmed that "must carry" stations that "multicast" several streams of digital programming are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single "primary" programming stream. The digital signals of stations that elect retransmission consent may be carried in any manner consistent with the agreement between the cable system and the broadcaster. The Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of January 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ("Carry One, Carry All"). FCC regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable "must carry" or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. Satellite carriers are expected to seamlessly replace stations' analog signals with digital signals. In March 2008, the FCC decided that its Carry One, Carry All policy also applies to local stations' HD DTV signals; however, satellite carriers may phase in the carriage of all HD DTV signals in a DMA over a four year period beginning in February 2010. Several cable and satellite operators have filed a petition for rulemaking with the FCC seeking changes in the retransmission consent regulations, including the imposition of mandatory arbitration and required interim carriage in the event the broadcaster and distributor fail to reach a carriage agreement. The broadcast industry, including Fox Television Stations, has opposed the petition. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of any FCC action on the petition or its effect on the Company.
 
 
Legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, under FCC license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a "significant purpose," the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. A television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license.
FCC rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Beginning in March 2004, the FCC implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. Under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed "indecent" and "profane." The FCC also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. Under the new FCC policy, both complaints about indecency and FCC enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by Fox Television Stations are pending at the FCC. As of June 2006, the law authorizes the FCC to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident for violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts.
On March 15, 2006, the FCC determined that the 2002 and 2003 programs, both live broadcasts on FOX, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the "March 15 Order"). However, since these broadcasts preceded the FCC's March 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. Nonetheless, in April 2006, Fox Television Stations appealed the March 15 Order to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals (the "Second Circuit"). On June 4, 2007, the Second Circuit granted Fox's appeal, vacating the March 15 Order as well as the FCC's new policy on "fleeting expletives" in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. The United States obtained review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which reversed the Second Circuit's decision and remanded the case back to the Second Circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. On June 13, 2010, the Second Circuit vacated the March 15 Order and the FCC's indecency policy underlying it on the grounds that the policy is unconstitutionally vague and violates the First Amendment.
Billboard Music Awards
On February 22, 2008, the FCC issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 FOX Affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the Company, on the grounds that an April 7, 2003 episode of the program violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. On April 4, 2008, the United States commenced an action in federal district court in the District of Columbia against the five Company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the FCC. One of the stations, WDAF-TV, subsequently paid the $7,000 forfeiture and was dismissed from the case in connection with the sale of that station by the Company to Oak Hill Capital Partners in July 2008. The Company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the FCC's forfeiture order is unconstitutional. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the Company.
Married by America
Modifications to the Company's programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of Fox Television Stations and FOX. If indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the Company's cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels.
 
 
The FCC continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children's television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. FCC rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. Legislation being considered by Congress would extend closed captioning requirements to programming distributed over the Internet. If enacted, the legislation would also require some television and cable programming to be video described, i.e., a verbal description of key visual elements is inserted into natural pauses in the audio and broadcast over a separate audio channel. Although not required by FCC regulation, the Company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with V Chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. FCC regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license.
Internet
The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 ("COPPA") prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 ("CAN-SPAM") regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or "spam." Online services provided by the Company may be subject to COPPA and CAN-SPAM requirements.
Some state legislatures have adopted legislation that regulates how businesses operate on the Internet, including measures relating to privacy and data security; others are considering specific legislation aimed at social networking sites, such as MySpace.com. Legislation has been introduced recently that would regulate the collection of data about consumers' Web browsing activities across the Internet that are used to serve targeted advertising. In addition, in February 2009, the Federal Trade Commission's staff released guidelines for Internet publishers (such as MySpace.com) and Internet advertising networks (such as FAN) to address concerns about consumer privacy, transparency and control raised by such collection and use of online behavioral data, and called for self-regulation. On July 3, 2009, the industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles. It is unclear whether these industry efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials. The effect of possible privacy and data security legislation on the Company's business cannot be determined.
Some foreign governments are raising similar safety, security and privacy concerns. In particular, the EU is actively evaluating the privacy implications of online behavioral data collection and usage. Different policy options, including new regulations, are being considered at both the EU and member state levels. Most of this activity is in its early stages and tighter regulation of the collection of online data is like. It is unclear how any government action would affect the Company's business.
The Company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments.
Raw Materials
As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company's paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate.
 
 
Intellectual Property
The Company's intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. The Company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and DTH satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as DVDs, books, newspapers and magazines, among others.
The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the United States and other key foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and Internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company's products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company's intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.
Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company's intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement.
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
This document contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "predict," "believe" and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places in this document and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The readers of this document are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. More information regarding these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth under the heading "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K (the "Annual Report"). The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This section should be read together with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report.
INTRODUCTION
Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to help provide an understanding of News Corporation and its subsidiaries' (together "News Corporation" or the "Company") financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. This discussion is organized as follows:
 
 
 
 
OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS
The Company regularly reviews its segment reporting and classification. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company aggregated the previously reported Book Publishing segment, Integrated Marketing Services segment and the Newspapers and Information Services segment to report a new Publishing segment because of changes in how the Company manages and evaluates these businesses as a result of evolving industry trends. The Company has revised its segment information for prior fiscal years to conform to the fiscal 2011 presentation.
The Company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the following six segments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cable Network Programming and Television
The Company's U.S. cable network operations primarily consist of the Fox News Channel ("FOX News"), the FX Network ("FX"), Regional Sports Networks ("RSNs"), the National Geographic Channels, SPEED and the Big Ten Network. The Company's international cable networks consist of the Fox International Channels ("FIC") and STAR. FIC produces and distributes entertainment, factual, sports, and movie channels through television channels in Europe, Africa, Asia and Latin America using several brands, including Fox, Fox Crime, Fox Life and National Geographic Channel. STAR's owned and affiliated channels are distributed in the following countries and regions: India; Greater China; Indonesia; the rest of South East Asia; Pakistan; the Middle East and North Africa; the United Kingdom and Europe; and North America.
Generally, the Company's cable networks, which target various demographics, derive a majority of their revenues from monthly affiliate fees received from cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators based on the number of their subscribers. Affiliate fee revenues are net of the amortization of cable distribution investments (capitalized fees paid to a cable operator or DBS operator to facilitate the launch of a cable network). The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Cable television and DBS are currently the predominant means of distribution of the Company's program services in the United States. Internationally, distribution technology varies region by region.
The Company's cable networks compete for carriage on cable television systems, DBS systems and other distribution systems with other program services. A primary focus of competition is for distribution of the Company's cable network channels that are not already distributed by particular cable television or DBS systems. For such program services, distributors make decisions on the use of bandwidth based on various considerations, including amounts paid by programmers for launches, subscription fees payable by distributors and appeal to the distributors' subscribers.
The Company's television operations primarily consist of FOX, MyNetworkTV and the 27 television stations owned by the Company.
The television operations derive revenues primarily from the sale of advertising and retransmission compensation. Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising may affect revenues. The U.S. television broadcast environment is highly competitive and the primary methods of competition are the development and acquisition of popular programming. Program success is measured by ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, with the top rated programs commanding the highest advertising prices. FOX is a broadcast network and MyNetworkTV is a programming distribution service. FOX and MyNetworkTV compete with other broadcast networks, such as CBS, ABC, NBC and The CW, independent television stations, cable program services, as well as other media, including DVDs, video games, print and the Internet for audiences and programming and, in the case of FOX, also for advertising revenues. In addition, FOX and MyNetworkTV compete with the other broadcast networks and other programming distribution services to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the country.
MyNetworkTV is a programming distribution service, airing off-network programming and movies as well as World Wrestling Entertainment's .
Friday Night SmackDown
 
Retransmission consent rules provide a mechanism for the television stations owned by the Company to seek and obtain payment from multi-channel video programming distributors who carry broadcasters' signals. Retransmission compensation consists of per subscriber-based compensatory fees paid to the Company from cable and satellite distribution systems for their retransmission of FOX and MyNetworkTV.
The television stations owned by the Company compete for programming, audiences and advertising revenues with other television stations and cable networks in their respective coverage areas and, in some cases, with respect to programming, with other station groups, and in the case of advertising revenues, with other local and national media. The competitive position of the television stations owned by the Company is largely influenced by the strength of FOX and MyNetworkTV, and, in particular, the prime-time viewership of the respective network, as well as the quality of the programming of FOX and MyNetworkTV.
The most significant operating expenses of the Cable Network Programming segment and the Television segment are the acquisition and production expenses related to programming and the production and technical expenses related to operating the technical facilities of the broadcaster or cable network. Other expenses include promotional expenses related to improving the market visibility and awareness of the broadcaster or cable network and its programming. Additional expenses include sales commissions paid to the in-house advertising sales force, as well as salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead expenses.
The Company has several multi-year sports rights agreements, including contracts with the National Football League ("NFL") through fiscal 2014, contracts with the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ("NASCAR") for certain races and exclusive rights for certain ancillary content through calendar year 2014 and a contract with Major League Baseball ("MLB") through calendar year 2013. These contracts provide the Company with the broadcast rights to certain U.S. national sporting events during their respective terms. The costs of these sports contracts are charged to expense based on the ratio of each period's operating profit to estimated total operating profit for the remaining term of the contract.
The profitability of these long-term U.S. national sports contracts is based on the Company's best estimates at June 30, 2010 of attributable revenues and costs; such estimates may change in the future and such changes may be significant. Should revenues decline from estimates applied at June 30, 2010, additional amortization of rights may be recorded. Should revenues improve as compared to estimated revenues, the Company may have an improved operating profit related to the contract, which may be recognized over the remaining contract term.
While the Company seeks to ensure compliance with federal indecency laws and related Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") regulations, the definition of "indecency" is subject to interpretation and there can be no assurance that the Company will not broadcast programming that is ultimately determined by the FCC to violate the prohibition against indecency. Such programming could subject the Company to regulatory review or investigation, fines, adverse publicity or other sanctions, including the loss of station licenses.
Filmed Entertainment
The Filmed Entertainment segment derives revenue from the production and distribution of feature motion pictures and television series. In general, motion pictures produced or acquired for distribution by the Company are exhibited in U.S. and foreign theaters, followed by home entertainment, video-on-demand and pay-per-view television, on-line and mobile distribution, premium subscription television, network television and basic cable and syndicated television exploitation. Television series initially produced for the networks and first-run syndication are generally licensed to domestic and international markets concurrently and subsequently released in seasonal DVD box sets. More successful series are later syndicated in domestic markets. The length of the revenue cycle for television series will vary depending on the number of seasons a series remains in active production and, therefore, may cause fluctuations in operating results. License fees received for television exhibition (including international and U.S. premium television and basic cable television) are recorded as revenue in the period that licensed films or programs are available for such exhibition, which may cause substantial fluctuations in operating results.
The revenues and operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment are significantly affected by the timing of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the number of its original and returning television series that are aired by television networks and the number of its television series in off-network syndication. Theatrical and home entertainment release dates are determined by several factors, including timing of vacation and holiday periods and competition in the marketplace. The distribution windows for the release of motion pictures theatrically and in various home entertainment formats have been compressing and may continue to change in the future. A further reduction in timing between theatrical and home entertainment releases could adversely affect the revenues and operating results of this segment.
The Company enters into arrangements with third parties to co-produce many of its theatrical productions. These arrangements, which are referred to as co-financing arrangements, take various forms. The parties to these arrangements include studio and non-studio entities, both domestic and foreign. In several of these agreements, other parties control certain distribution rights. The Filmed Entertainment segment records the amounts received for the sale of an economic interest as a reduction of the cost of the film, as the
investor assumes full risk for that portion of the film asset acquired in these transactions. The substance of these arrangements is that the third-party investors own an interest in the film and, therefore, receive a participation based on the respective third-party investor's interest in the profits or losses incurred on the film. Consistent with the requirements of ASC 926-605 "Entertainment  Films -Revenue Recognition," ("ASC 926-605"), the estimate of a third-party investor's interest in profits or losses incurred on the film is determined by reference to the ratio of actual revenue earned to date in relation to total estimated ultimate revenues.
Operating costs incurred by the Filmed Entertainment segment include: exploitation costs, primarily theatrical prints and advertising and home entertainment marketing and manufacturing costs; amortization of capitalized production, overhead and interest costs; and participations and talent residuals. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead.
The Company competes with other major studios, such as Disney, Paramount, Sony, Universal, Warner Bros. and independent film producers in the production and distribution of motion pictures and DVDs. As a producer and distributor of television programming, the Company competes with studios, television production groups and independent producers and syndicators, such as Disney, Sony, NBC Universal, Warner Bros. and Paramount Television, to sell programming both domestically and internationally. The Company also competes to obtain creative talent and story properties, which are essential to the success of the Company's filmed entertainment businesses.
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
The DBS segment's operations consist of SKY Italia, which provides basic and premium programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in Italy. SKY Italia derives revenues principally from subscriber fees. The Company believes that the quality and variety of programming, audio and interactive programming including personal video recorders, quality of picture including high definition channels, access to service, customer service and price are the key elements for gaining and maintaining market share. SKY Italia's competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband Internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ("DTT") services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. Since 2003, SKY Italia had been prohibited from owning a DTT frequency or providing a pay television DTT offer under a commitment made to the European Commission (the "EC") through December 31, 2011. In July 2010, the EC modified such commitment to allow SKY Italia to bid for one DTT frequency. However, if SKY Italia was to successfully bid for such a DTT frequency, the EC would limit SKY Italia's use of such frequency to exclusively free-to-air channels through 2015.
SKY Italia's most significant operating expenses are those related to the acquisition of entertainment, movie and sports programming and subscribers and the production and technical expenses related to operating the technical facilities. Operating expenses related to sports programming are generally recognized over the course of the related sport season, which may cause fluctuations in the operating results of this segment.
Publishing
The Company's Publishing segment consists of the Company's newspapers and information services, book publishing and integrated marketing services businesses.
Revenue is derived from the sale of advertising space, newspapers, books and subscriptions as well as licensing. Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising may affect revenues. Circulation and subscription revenues can be greatly affected by changes in the prices of the Company's and/or competitors' products, as well as by promotional activities.
Operating expenses include costs related to paper, production, distribution, editorial, commissions and royalties. Selling, general and administrative expenses include promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead. The Company expects that advancements in technology will introduce new challenges and opportunities for digital distribution by the publishing businesses.
 
The Publishing segment's advertising volume, circulation and the price of paper are the key variables whose fluctuations can have a material effect on the Company's operating results and cash flow. The Company has to anticipate the level of advertising volume, circulation and paper prices in managing its businesses to maximize operating profit during expanding and contracting economic cycles. Paper is a basic commodity and its price is sensitive to the balance of supply and demand. The Company's costs and expenses are affected by the cyclical increases and decreases in the price of paper. The Publishing segment's products compete for readership and advertising with local and national competitors and also compete with other media alternatives in their respective markets. Competition for circulation and subscriptions are based on the content of the products provided, service, pricing and, from time to time, various promotions. The success of these products depends upon advertisers' judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. Competition for advertising is based upon the reach of the products, advertising rates and advertiser results. Such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, distribution and quality of readership demographics. The Company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges for the Publishing segment's businesses.
Other
The Other segment consists primarily of:
Digital Media Group
The Company sells advertising, sponsorships and subscription services on the Company's various digital media properties. Significant expenses associated with the Company's digital media properties include development costs, advertising and promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits and other routine overhead. The Company's digital media properties include, among others, MySpace.com, IGN.com and Fox Audience Network.
News Outdoor
News Outdoor sells outdoor advertising space on various media, primarily in Russia. Significant expenses associated with the News Outdoor business include site lease costs, direct production, maintenance and installation expenses, salaries, employee benefits and other routine overhead. The Company is currently exploring the possible sale of the News Outdoor business.
Other Business Developments
During fiscal 2010, the Company acquired additional shares of Sky Deutschland, increasing its ownership from approximately 38% at June 30, 2009 to approximately 45% at June 30, 2010. The aggregate cost of the shares acquired was approximately $200 million and the majority of the shares were newly registered shares issued pursuant to a capital increase. On August 2, 2010, the Company agreed
to backstop 340 million (approximately $448 million) of financing measures that are being initiated by Sky Deutschland. The financing measures are structured such that the Company's shareholding in Sky Deutschland will not exceed 49.9% unless the Company elects to do so. The rights offering of up to 269.6 million newly issued registered shares may be combined with a bond issued to the Company, that is convertible for up to 53.9 million underlying Sky Deutschland shares, and/or a loan provided by the Company. The Company will have the right to convert the bond into equity at any time following a 40-day holding period, subject to certain black-out periods. If not converted, the Company will have the option to redeem the bond for cash upon its maturity in four years. The financing measures are expected to be completed by no later than January 31, 2011.
During fiscal 2010, the Company completed two transactions related to its financial indexes businesses:
The Company sold its 33% interest in STOXX AG ("STOXX"), a European market index provider, to its partners, Deutsche Brse AG and SIX Group AG, for approximately $300 million in cash. The Company is entitled to receive additional consideration up to approximately $40 million if STOXX achieves certain revenue targets in calendar year 2010.
The Company and CME Group Inc. ("CME") formed a joint venture to operate a global financial index service business (the "Venture"), to which the Company contributed its Dow Jones Indexes business valued at $675 million (which included the Company's agreement to provide to the Venture an annual media credit for advertising on the Company's Dow Jones media properties averaging approximately $3.5 million a year for a ten year term) and CME contributed a business which provides certain market data services valued at $608 million. The Company and CME own 10% and 90% of the Venture, respectively. The Venture issued approximately $613 million in third-party debt due in March 2018 that has been guaranteed by CME (the "Venture Financing"). The Venture used the proceeds from the debt issuance to make a special distribution at the time of the closing of approximately $600 million solely to the Company. The Company agreed to indemnify CME with respect to any payments of principal, premium and interest that CME makes under its guarantee of the Venture Financing and certain refinancing of such debt. In the event the Company is required to perform under this indemnity, the Company will be subrogated to and acquire all rights of CME. The maximum potential amount of undiscounted future payments related to this indemnity is approximately $828 million at June 30, 2010. The Company has made a determination that there is no recognition of this potential future payment in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation.
The Company has the right to cause the Venture to purchase its 10% interest at fair market value in 2016 and the Venture has the right to call the Company's 10% interest at fair market value in 2017.
During fiscal 2010, the Company sold the majority of its terrestrial television operations in Eastern Europe led by the sale of its Bulgarian terrestrial TV business, bTV. The aggregate cash received in connection with these sales was approximately $372 million, net of expense, and a gain of approximately $195 million on these sales was included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The Company continues to operate a terrestrial TV business, FOX TV, a Turkish national general interest free-to-air broadcast television station. The net income, assets, liabilities and cash flow attributable to the terrestrial television operations sold are not material to the Company in any of the periods presented and, accordingly, have not been presented separately.
During fiscal 2010, the Company acquired an approximate 9% interest in Rotana Holding FZ-LLC ("Rotana"), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the Middle East and North Africa, for $70 million. A significant stockholder of the Company, who owns approximately 7% of the Company's Class B Common Stock, owns a controlling interest in Rotana. The Company has an option to purchase an approximate 9% additional interest for $70 million through November 2011. The Company also has an option to sell its interests in Rotana in fiscal year 2015 at the higher of the price per share based on a bona fide sale offer or the original subscription price.
In June 2010, the Company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc ("BSkyB"), in which the Company currently has an approximate 39% interest, to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. The Company and the independent members of BSkyB's board of directors were unable to reach a mutually agreeable price at the time of the public announcement; however, the parties entered into a cooperation agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to work together to proceed with the regulatory process in order to facilitate a proposed transaction. There can be no assurance that the Company will make a binding offer. The Company will pay BSkyB a breakup fee of approximately $60 million as of June 30, 2010 if the regulatory approvals are obtained and the Company does not make a binding offer within five months thereafter of at least 700 pence per share. The Company believes that a potential transaction will result in increased geographic diversification of the Company's earnings base and reduce its exposure to cyclical advertising revenues through an increase in direct consumer subscription revenues. If the Company makes a binding offer and proceeds with the proposed transaction, the Company plans to finance the transaction by using a significant portion of the available cash on its balance sheet plus borrowed funds.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Results of Operations  Fiscal 2010 versus Fiscal 2009
The following table sets forth the Company's operating results for fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009.
 
 
 The Company's revenues increased 8% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to revenue increases at the Filmed Entertainment, Cable Network Programming and Publishing segments. Filmed Entertainment segment revenues increased primarily due to increased worldwide theatrical and home entertainment revenues The increase at the Cable Network Programming segment was primarily due to increases in net affiliate and advertising revenues. The increase at the Publishing segment was primarily due to favorable foreign exchange fluctuations. These revenue increases were partially offset by decreased revenues at the Other segment, primarily due to decreased revenues at the Company's digital media properties and the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in NDS Group plc ("NDS") in February 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS's operating results subsequent to February 2009 is included within Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates.
Overview
.
Operating expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 increased 7% as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to increased amortization of production costs and higher participation costs at the Filmed Entertainment segment and higher programming costs at the Television, Cable Network Programming and DBS segments, as well as unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations. These increases were partially offset by the absence of costs related to NDS in the Other segment, reflecting the sale of a portion of the Company's NDS ownership stake as noted above, as well as the effect of company-wide cost containment initiatives.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 increased 7% as compared to fiscal 2009. This increase was primarily due to a $500 million charge related to the legal settlement with Valassis Communications, Inc. ("Valassis") at the Publishing segment, partially offset by the absence of costs related to NDS as noted above and the effects of company-wide cost containment initiatives.
Depreciation and amortization increased 4% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher depreciation at the DBS segment resulting from increased depreciation of set-top boxes and unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations, which was partially offset by the absence of depreciation and amortization related to NDS.
As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation, the Company determined that it was more likely than not its News Outdoor and Fox Mobile Group ("Fox Mobile") businesses which are considered reporting units under ASC 350 "Intangibles  Goodwill and Other" ("ASC 350"), will be sold or disposed. In connection with such potential sales, the Company reviewed these businesses for impairment and recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $200 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The impairment charge consisted of a write-down of $52 million in finite-lived intangible assets, a write-down of $137 million in goodwill and a write-down of fixed assets of $11 million.
Impairment and restructuring charges
 
As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation, the Company recorded approximately $53 million of restructuring charges in the consolidated statements of operations in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The restructuring charges reflect an $18 million charge related to the sales and distribution operations of the STAR channels, $19 million charge related to termination benefits recorded at the Publishing segment and a $16 million charge at the Other segment related to the restructuring program at Fox Mobile and the accretion on facility termination obligations.
During fiscal 2009, the Company performed an interim impairment review in advance of its annual impairment assessment because the Company believed events had occurred and circumstances had changed that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets below their carrying amounts. These events included: (a) the decline of the price of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock below the carrying value of the Company's stockholders' equity; (b) the reduced growth in advertising revenues; (c) the decline in the operating profit margins in some of the Company's advertising-based businesses; and (d) the decline in the valuations of other television stations, newspapers and advertising-based companies as determined by the current trading values of those companies. In addition, the Company performed an annual impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
As a result of the impairment reviews performed, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately $8.9 billion ($7.2 billion, net of tax) during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The charges consisted of a write-down of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily FCC licenses in the Television segment) of $4.6 billion, a write-down of $4.1 billion of goodwill and a write-down of the Publishing segment's fixed assets of $185 million in accordance with ASC 360 "Property, Plant and Equipment" ("ASC 360").
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $312 million. These restructuring charges reflect a number of the Company's businesses that implemented a series of operational restructuring actions to address the Company's cost structure, including the restructuring of the Company's digital media properties to align resources more closely with business priorities. This restructuring program included significant job reductions, both domestically and internationally, to enable the businesses to operate on a more cost effective basis. In conjunction with this restructuring program, the Company also eliminated excess facility requirements. In fiscal 2009, several other businesses of the Company implemented similar plans, including the U.K. and Australian newspapers, HarperCollins, MyNetworkTV and Fox Television Stations.
Equity earnings of affiliates increased $757 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher contributions from BSkyB as a result of a favorable litigation settlement, as well as a gain recognized by BSkyB on the sale of a portion of its investment in ITV plc ("ITV") and the absence of write-downs related to ITV recorded by BSkyB during fiscal 2009. Also contributing to the increase was the absence of a $422 million write-down of the Company's investment in Sky Deutschland recorded in fiscal 2009.
Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates -
 
 
 Interest expense, net for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 increased $64 million as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, primarily due to the issuance of borrowings in February 2009 and August 2009. This increase was partially offset by the retirement of $200 million and $150 million of the Company's borrowings in October 2008 and March 2010, respectively.
Interest expense, net
 
Other, net
 
 
 The Company's tax provision and related tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 were lower than the statutory rate primarily related to the recognition of prior year tax credits, permanent differences and the recognition of tax assets on the disposition of certain assets. The recognition of prior year tax credits relates to the Company's election to credit certain prior year taxes instead of claiming deductions.
Income tax (expense) benefit
The Company's tax provision and related tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 were different from the statutory rate primarily due to the recognition of a non-cash benefit related to the reduction of accruals for uncertain positions resulting from the resolution of certain tax matters and a permanent difference on the gain on the sale of a portion of a subsidiary. The tax provision and tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 reflect these items, which were offset in part by the non-deductible goodwill included within the impairment charges taken in fiscal 2009.
Net income increased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to a reduction in impairment charges recorded in fiscal 2010, as well as the higher revenues and equity earnings of affiliates as noted above. This increase was partially offset by the charge related to the litigation settlement charge recorded in fiscal 2010, the absence of the gain on the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in NDS in February 2009, the gain on the sale of eight of the Company's television stations in July 2008 (the "Stations") and the non-cash tax benefit in fiscal 2009 noted above.
Net income (loss)
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher results at the Company's majority owned businesses. This increase was partially offset by the absence of income from NDS due to the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in February 2009, resulting in the Company's remaining interest in NDS being accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
Segment Analysis:
The following table sets forth the Company's revenues and segment operating income for fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009.
 
Management believes that total segment operating income is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments because it is the primary measure used by the Company's chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance and allocate resources within the Company's businesses. Total segment operating income provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each of the Company's business segments and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data, although historical results may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences). The following table reconciles total segment operating income to income (loss) before income tax expense.
 
(21% and 20% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively)
Cable Network Programming
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, revenues at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $907 million, or 15%, as compared to fiscal 2009. Revenue increased 14% and 18% at the domestic and international cable channels, respectively, primarily due to higher net affiliate and advertising revenues. Domestic net affiliate and advertising revenues increased 19% and 3%, respectively, primarily due to increases at FOX News, the RSNs and FX. International net affiliate and advertising revenues increased 15% and 25%, respectively, primarily due to increases at FIC and STAR.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, FOX News' revenues increased 23% as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to increases in net affiliate and advertising revenues. Net affiliate revenues increased 40% as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher average rates per subscriber and a higher number of subscribers. Advertising revenues increased 9% as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher pricing. As of June 30, 2010, FOX News reached over 98 million Nielsen households.
 
The RSNs' revenues increased 12% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 driven by higher net affiliate and advertising revenues. Net affiliate revenues increased 14% as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher average rates per subscriber and a higher number of subscribers. Advertising revenues increased 3% as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher National Basketball Association, MLB and collegiate football revenues resulting from higher pricing and additional commercial spots sold.
The Company's international cable operations' revenues increased 18% as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher advertising revenues at STAR, as well as higher net affiliate and advertising revenues at FIC. The higher advertising revenues at STAR were primarily due to the strengthening of the advertising market in India and improved performance at the regional channels, while the strengthening of the worldwide advertising markets led to improvements at FIC. The higher net affiliate revenues at FIC resulted from increases in subscribers at existing channels in Europe and Latin America.
FX's revenues increased 11% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher net affiliate and advertising revenues. Net affiliate revenues increased 16% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, primarily due to higher average rates per subscriber. Advertising revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 increased 3% as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to additional commercial spots sold. As of June 30, 2010, FX reached approximately 96 million Nielsen households.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, operating income at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $615 million, or 37%, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above. Also contributing to this increase was the absence of a $30 million settlement relating to the termination of a distribution agreement at the Company's international cable operations in fiscal 2009. These increases were partially offset by a $292 million increase in operating expenses, primarily due to higher movie acquisition costs, sports rights amortization and original programming costs.
(23% and 20% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively)
Filmed Entertainment
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, revenues at the Filmed Entertainment segment increased $1,695 million, or 29%, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to increased worldwide theatrical and home entertainment revenues. The revenue increase was primarily driven by the successful worldwide theatrical and home entertainment releases of , and as well as the worldwide theatrical release of . Also contributing to the increase in revenues were the home entertainment releases of and .
Avatar
Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakquel
Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs,
Date Night
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the Filmed Entertainment segment operating income increased $501 million, or 59%, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by increased amortization of production costs, higher participation and releasing costs and higher home entertainment manufacturing and marketing costs.
(13% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009)
Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, Television segment revenues increased $177 million, or 4%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher advertising revenues at the television stations owned by the Company as a result of higher pricing due to continued improvements in the advertising market, partially offset by lower political advertising revenues due to the absence of advertising revenues related to the 2008 presidential election. In addition, higher NFL and MLB revenues due to increased post-season ratings were more than offset by the absence of revenue from the Bowl Championship Series National Championship, which was broadcast on FOX in fiscal 2009, and lower ratings for NASCAR.
The Television segment reported an increase in operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 of $29 million, or 15%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase in operating income was primarily the result of the revenue increases noted above and the effects of cost containment initiatives, as well as improved operating results at MyNetworkTV, partially offset by higher prime-time entertainment programming and sports costs at FOX.
(12% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009)
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, SKY Italia's revenues increased $42 million, or 1%, as compared to fiscal 2009, as increases from higher advertising revenues primarily due to the FIFA World Cup and favorable foreign exchange fluctuations, were partially offset by lower pay-per-view and other revenues. The number of SKY Italia subscribers decreased by approximately 56,000 during fiscal 2010, bringing the total subscriber base to 4.7 million at June 30, 2010. The total churn for fiscal 2010 was approximately 630,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.8 million, as compared to churn of approximately 635,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.7 million in fiscal 2009. Subscriber churn for the period represents the number of SKY Italia subscribers whose service was disconnected during the period. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro resulted in an increase in revenue of approximately 1% as compared to fiscal 2009.
 
Average revenue per subscriber ("ARPU") of approximately 43 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 decreased from approximately 44 in fiscal 2009. The decrease in ARPU for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, was primarily due to lower average tier mix and reduced pay-per-view revenue. SKY Italia calculates ARPU by dividing total subscriber-related revenues for the period by the average subscribers for the period and dividing that amount by the number of months in the period. Subscriber-related revenues are comprised of total subscription revenue, pay-per-view revenue and equipment rental revenue for the period. Average subscribers are calculated for the respective periods by adding the beginning and ending subscribers for the period and dividing by two.
Subscriber acquisition costs per subscriber ("SAC") of approximately 310 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 increased from fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher marketing costs on a per subscriber basis. SAC is calculated by dividing total subscriber acquisition costs for a period by the number of gross SKY Italia subscribers added during the period. Subscriber acquisition costs include the cost of the commissions paid to retailers and other distributors, the cost of equipment sold directly by SKY Italia to subscribers and the costs related to installation and acquisition advertising, net of any upfront activation fee. SKY Italia excludes the value of equipment capitalized under SKY Italia's equipment lease program, as well as payments and the value of returned equipment related to disconnected lease program subscribers from subscriber acquisition costs.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, SKY Italia's operating income decreased $163 million, or 41%, as compared to fiscal 2009, resulting from higher sports rights amortization, primarily due to the 2010 FIFA World Cup and Winter Olympics, and increased set-top box depreciation. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro resulted in a decrease in operating income of approximately 4% as compared to fiscal 2009.
(26% and 27% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively)
Publishing
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, revenues at the Publishing segment increased $381 million, or 5%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase in revenue was primarily due to favorable foreign exchange fluctuations at the Australian newspapers, increased book sales and higher integrated marketing services revenues.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, revenues at the Company's newspapers and information services businesses increased $229 million, or 4%, as compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to favorable foreign exchange fluctuations at the Australian newspapers and higher circulation revenues at due to higher pricing. The increase in revenues was partially offset by lower circulation revenues at the Company's U.K newspapers and a decrease in revenue from the disposition of the financial indexes businesses at Dow Jones & Company, Inc. ("Dow Jones"). The weakening of the U.S. dollar against local currencies, primarily the Australian Dollar, resulted in revenue and operating income increases of approximately 6% and 13%, respectively, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.
The Wall Street Journal
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, revenues at the Company's book publishing business increased $128 million, or 11%, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher sales at the General Books and Children's divisions and favorable foreign exchange fluctuations. Also contributing to the increase during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 were revenues from licensing fees received from a settlement. The increase at the General Books division was primarily due to the success of by Sarah Palin and higher electronic book sales. Strong sales of by Maurice Sendak, by L.J. Smith and by Lauren Conrad led to the increase at the Children's division. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, HarperCollins had 164 titles on Bestseller List with 19 titles reaching the number one position.
Going Rogue
Where the Wild Things Are
The Vampire Diaries
LA Candy
The New York Times
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, revenues at the Company's integrated marketing service businesses increased $24 million, or 2%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The increase in revenues was primarily due to increases in volume and rates of in-store marketing products sold, partially offset by lower revenues for free-standing insert products.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, operating income at the Publishing segment decreased $369 million, or 44%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the $500 million charge relating to the settlement of the Valassis litigation and higher royalty and manufacturing costs resulting from higher book sales. The operating income decrease was partially offset by the revenue increases noted above, as well as the impact of cost containment initiatives and lower newspaper production costs.
(5% and 8% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively)
Other
Revenues at the Other segment decreased $847 million, or 36%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to decreased revenues from NDS and the Company's digital media properties. The decrease at NDS of $413 million was due to the absence of revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, reflecting the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in NDS in February 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS's operating results subsequent to February 2009 is included within Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates. The revenue decrease at the Company's digital media properties of $276 million was principally due to lower search and advertising revenues.
 
Operating results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 decreased $212 million, or 58%, as compared to fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to lower operating results from NDS and the Company's digital media properties. The decrease at NDS was due to the absence of $121 million of operating income during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, resulting from the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in NDS as noted above. The decrease at the Company's digital media properties of $135 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 was primarily due to the revenue declines noted above, partially offset by cost containment initiatives.
Results of Operations  Fiscal 2009 versus Fiscal 2008
The following table sets forth the Company's operating results for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008.
 
 
 The Company's revenues decreased 8% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to revenue decreases at the Television, Filmed Entertainment and Other segments, as well as unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations. Television segment revenues decreased primarily due to the absence of revenues from the Stations sold in July 2008, lower advertising revenues as a result of general weakness in the advertising markets and the absence of revenue from the Super Bowl which was broadcast on FOX during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease at the Filmed Entertainment segment was primarily due to decreased worldwide home entertainment and theatrical revenues. The Other segment's revenue decrease reflects the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in NDS in February 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS operating results subsequent to February 5, 2009 is included within Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates. These decreases were partially offset by increased revenues at the Cable Network Programming segment, primarily due to an increase in net affiliate revenues.
Overview
Operating expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased 5% as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to decreased amortization of production and participation costs and lower home entertainment manufacturing and marketing costs at the Filmed Entertainment segment, as well as favorable foreign currency fluctuations. Also contributing to these decreases was the absence of costs related to the Super Bowl and the Stations sold in fiscal 2009 at the Television segment and the incremental decrease of costs related to NDS in the Other segment, reflecting the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in February 2009. These decreases were partially offset by higher programming costs at the Cable Network Programming segment, higher programming costs due to increases in entertainment programming license fees at FOX, as well as costs associated with the return of several programs in fiscal 2009 which were not broadcast in fiscal 2008 due to the Writer's Guild of America strike in the Television segment and, in the Publishing segment, incremental expenses from Dow Jones, which was acquired in December 2007.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 increased approximately 3% as compared to fiscal 2008. The Publishing segment's cost increase for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was primarily due to incremental expenses from Dow Jones. Also contributing to this increase were higher employee costs partially offset by favorable foreign currency fluctuations and decreased costs related to NDS and the Stations.
 
Depreciation and amortization decreased 6% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the absence of depreciation on the decommissioned U.K. printing presses included in fiscal 2008, which was partially offset by higher depreciation due to additional property, plant and equipment placed into service and incremental depreciation and amortization from the acquisition of Dow Jones.
- As a result of the impairment reviews performed, in fiscal 2009 discussed above, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately $8.9 billion ($7.2 billion, net of tax) in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The charges consisted of a write-down of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily FCC licenses in the Television segment) of $4.6 billion, a write-down of $4.1 billion of goodwill and a write-down of the Publishing segment's fixed assets of $185 million in accordance with ASC 360.
Impairment and restructuring charges
As discussed above the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $312 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, restructuring charges included $19 million related to a redundancy program in the United Kingdom in connection with printing press upgrades.
Equity earnings of affiliates decreased $636 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily a result of the inclusion of losses from Sky Deutschland, principally representing a write-down of $422 million of the Company's investment in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Also contributing to the decrease in earnings from equity affiliates was the absence of contributions from DIRECTV due to the exchange of the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV to Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty") in February 2008 and the disposition of the Company's entire interest in Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. ("Gemstar") in May 2008. These decreases were partially offset by higher contributions from BSkyB, principally from reduced write-downs related to its ITV investment.
Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates 
 
 
Interest expense, net for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was relatively consistent with the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, as the issuance in November 2007 of $1.25 billion 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and the issuance in February 2009 of $700 million 6.90% Senior Notes due 2019 and $300 million 7.85% Senior Notes due 2039 were partially offset by the retirement of the Company's $350 million 6.625% Senior Notes due January 2008 and $200 million 7.38% Senior Notes due October 2008.
Interest expense, net
Interest income decreased $155 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, primarily due to lower interest rates.
Interest income
 
Other, net 
 
 
- The Company's tax provision and related tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 were different from the statutory rate primarily due to the recognition of a non-cash benefit related to the reduction of accruals for uncertain positions resulting from the resolution of certain tax matters and a permanent difference on the gain on the sale of a portion of a subsidiary. The tax provision and tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 reflect these items, which were offset in part by the non-deductible goodwill included within the impairment charges taken in fiscal 2009.
Income tax benefit (expense)
The Company's tax provision and related tax rates for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 were also different from the statutory rate due to the closing of the tax-free exchange transaction with Liberty (See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation) and the reversal of previously deferred tax liabilities for DIRECTV and three RSNs. The exchange transaction with Liberty qualified as a tax-free split-off in accordance with Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and, as a result, no income tax provision was recorded against the gain recorded on the transaction.
Net income decreased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the impairment and restructuring charges and revenue decreases noted above. Also contributing to the decrease in net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was decreased earnings from equity affiliates noted above, as well as the absence of the tax-free gain on the exchange of DIRECTV in fiscal 2008. These decreases were partially offset by the gain on the NDS Transaction and the non-cash tax benefit noted above.
Net (loss) income
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $63 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net income attributable to the noncontrolling interests of NDS due to the reduction in the Company's ownership interest which resulted in the Company's remaining interest in NDS being accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Also contributing to this decrease were lower results at other majority-owned businesses.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
 
Segment Analysis:
The following table sets forth the Company's revenues and segment operating income for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008.
 
 
Management believes that total segment operating income is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments because it is the primary measure used by the Company's chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance and allocate resources within the Company's businesses. Total segment operating income provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each of the Company's business segments and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data, although historical results may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences). The following table reconciles total segment operating income to income before income taxes.
 
(20% and 17% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Cable Network Programming
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $521 million, or 9%, as compared to fiscal 2008. This increase was driven by higher net affiliate and advertising revenues at FOX News, the Big Ten Network and FX, as well as higher net affiliate revenues at the Company's international cable operations. The increase for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was partially offset by revenue decreases at the RSNs of $143 million due to the divestiture of three RSNs to Liberty in February 2008.
 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, FOX News' revenues increased 26% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to an increase in net affiliate and advertising revenues. Net affiliate revenues increased 61% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher average rates per subscriber and lower cable distribution amortization as compared to fiscal 2008. Advertising revenues increased 1% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher pricing and volume. As of June 30, 2009, FOX News reached approximately 97 million Nielsen households.
The Big Ten Network's revenue increase for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was primarily due to a 53% increase in the number of subscribers from fiscal 2008, as the channel gained distribution on all major pay television platforms in the Big Ten markets in fiscal 2009.
FX's revenues increased 10% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, driven by net affiliate and advertising revenue increases. Net affiliate revenues increased 7% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as a result of an increase in average rate per subscriber and the number of subscribers. Advertising revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 increased 9% as compared to fiscal 2008 due to higher pricing and volume. As of June 30, 2009, FX reached approximately 95 million Nielsen households.
The Company's international cable operations' revenues increased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to improved net affiliate revenues, as well as the launch of new international channels. The increase was partially offset by a decline in advertising revenue in the Indian market, lower syndication revenues and unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations. The RSNs' revenues decreased 2% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, as increases in net affiliate revenues were more than offset by the absence of revenues from the divestiture of three RSNs to Liberty in February 2008 and lower advertising revenues.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, operating income at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $297 million, or 22%, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above. The revenue increases were partially offset by a $224 million increase in operating expenses, primarily due to higher sports rights amortization and higher selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to the launch of new international channels. Also partially offsetting the operating income increase was lower operating results at the RSNs, primarily due to the absence of $38 million of operating profit from the three RSNs that were divested to Liberty and a settlement of approximately $30 million relating to the termination of a distribution agreement at the international cable operations.
(20% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008)
Filmed Entertainment
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Filmed Entertainment segment decreased $763 million, or 11%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The revenue decrease was primarily due to a decrease in worldwide home entertainment revenues from theatrical and television products, as well as a decrease in worldwide theatrical revenues as a result of the difficult comparisons to the revenues from and released in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
The Simpsons Movie
Live Free or Die Hard
The fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 included the worldwide theatrical and home entertainment releases of and the home entertainment and pay television availability of and , the worldwide pay television availability of and , the worldwide theatrical releases and the related initial releasing costs of and and the initial releasing costs of . The fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 included the successful worldwide theatrical and home entertainment performances of , , and . Also included in fiscal 2008 were the theatrical releases of and as well as their related initial releasing costs.
Taken
Marley & Me,
What Happens in Vegas
Horton Hears a Who!
Juno
The Simpsons Movie
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian
Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs
The Simpsons Movie
Alvin and the Chipmunks
Live Free or Die Hard, Juno
Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer
What Happens in Vegas, The Happening
Horton Hears a Who!,
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Filmed Entertainment segment's operating income decreased $398 million, or 32%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the revenue decreases noted above, partially offset by lower theatrical releasing costs, decreased amortization of production and participation costs and lower home entertainment marketing and manufacturing costs.
(13% and 16% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Television segment revenues decreased $1,139 million, or 22%, as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the absence of revenues from the Stations sold in July 2008 of $294 million, lower advertising revenues at the television stations owned by the Company due to the general weakness in the advertising markets, with automotive advertising experiencing the largest decrease, and the absence of the Super Bowl and Emmy Awards which were broadcast on FOX during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Also contributing to the decrease was lower advertising revenues from MLB post-season due to one less game broadcast and NASCAR due to lower ratings and fewer available commercial units. The revenue decreases were partially offset by an increase in political advertising revenues at the television stations owned by the Company.
 
The Television segment reported a decrease in operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 of $848 million from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease in operating income was primarily the result of the revenue decreases noted above, as well as higher programming costs due to increased entertainment programming license fees and higher sports programming costs at FOX. The costs associated with the return of several programs in fiscal 2009 which were not broadcast in fiscal 2008 due to the Writer's Guild of America strike and the absence of $86 million of operating income from the Stations sold in July 2008. The operating income decrease for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was partially offset by lower costs for local sports rights due to fewer games broadcast at the television stations owned by the Company.
(12% and 11% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, SKY Italia revenues increased $11 million as compared with fiscal 2008, as revenue growth primarily attributed to an increase in the average subscriber base combined with a price increase and higher penetration of premium services was partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. SKY Italia had an increase of approximately 235,000 subscribers during fiscal 2009, which increased SKY Italia's total subscriber base to approximately 4.8 million at June 30, 2009. The total churn for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was approximately 635,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.7 million, as compared to churn of approximately 429,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.4 million in fiscal 2008. Subscriber churn for the period represents the number of SKY Italia subscribers whose service was disconnected during the period. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro resulted in a decrease in revenue of approximately 7% as compared to fiscal 2008.
ARPU for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was approximately 44, which was consistent with the ARPU for fiscal 2008.
SAC of approximately 250 in fiscal 2009 decreased as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower marketing costs on a per subscriber basis, as well as lower take-up of a full installation offer.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, SKY Italia's operating income decreased $26 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by the revenue increases noted above and unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations. The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2009 was primarily due to higher programming costs as a result of the launch of new channels, higher contractual sports rights amortization and higher fees paid for programming costs as a result of the increase in the number of subscribers. Also contributing to increased costs was increased overall marketing costs to support new promotional offerings. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro resulted in a decrease in operating income of approximately 4% as compared to fiscal 2008.
(27% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008)
Publishing
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Publishing segment decreased $593 million, or 7%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease in revenue was primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations at the U.K. newspapers and Australian newspapers, general weakness in advertising market, and lower book sales as compared to fiscal 2008. This decrease was partially offset by the inclusion of approximately $1 billion of incremental revenue from Dow Jones, which was acquired in December 2007 and higher integrated marketing service revenues.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Company's newspapers and information services businesses decreased $390 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2008 primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations at the U.K. and Australian newspapers, as well as lower classified and display advertising revenues. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and Australian dollar resulted in revenue and operating income decrease of approximately 15% and 12%, respectively, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Company's book publishing business decreased $247 million, or 18%, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower sales of general books mainly due to the weak retail market, as well as notable sales performances of several titles during fiscal 2008, including by Conn and Hal Iggulden and by Jessica Seinfeld, with fewer comparable titles in fiscal 2009. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, HarperCollins had 165 titles on Bestseller List with 15 titles reaching the number one position. During fiscal 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar resulted in a decrease in revenue of approximately 7% as compared to fiscal 2008.
The Dangerous Book for Boys
Deceptively Delicious
The New York Times
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Company's integrated marketing service businesses decreased $44 million, or 4%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The increase in revenues was primarily due to increases in volume and rates of in-store marketing products sold, partially offset by lower revenues for free-standing insert products.
 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, operating income at the Publishing segment decreased $462 million, or 36%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease in operating income was primarily a result of unfavorable foreign exchange movements, the revenue decreases at the Company's newspapers and information services and book publishing businesses noted above, higher legal, advertising and promotional costs, as well as higher provision for bad debt at the Company's book publishing business due to the bankruptcy filing of a major distributor in December 2008. The operating income decrease was partially offset by the absence of depreciation on decommissioned printing presses.
(8% and 9% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Other
Revenues at the Other segment decreased $610 million, or 20%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to decreases in revenues from NDS, the Company's digital media properties, Fox Mobile and News Outdoor. The decrease at NDS reflects the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in February 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS operating results subsequent to February 5, 2009 is included within Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates. The revenue decrease at the Company's digital media properties was due to decreased advertising revenues at MySpace. News Outdoor's revenues decreased due to lower rates, lower advertising space utilization and unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations.
Operating results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased $279 million as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the revenue declines noted above, as well as decreased operating income from NDS and the Company's digital media properties. The NDS decline was primarily due to the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake as noted above. The decline in the Company's digital media properties operating results was driven by increased costs associated with the launch of MySpace Music and the addition of new features.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Current Financial Condition
Impact of the Current Economic Environment
The United States and global economies have undergone a period of economic uncertainty, and the related capital markets have experienced significant volatility. In certain of the markets in which the Company's businesses operate, there was a weakening in the overall economic climate resulting in pressure on the labor markets, retail sales and consumer confidence, which impacted advertising revenues at the Company's Television, Publishing and Other segments, as well as the retail sales of books and DVDs. Despite these trends, the Company believes the cash generated internally and available financing will continue to provide the Company sufficient liquidity for the foreseeable future.
Current Financial Condition
The Company's principal source of liquidity is internally generated funds. The Company also has a $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, which expires in May 2012, and has access to various film co-production alternatives to supplement its cash flows. In addition, the Company has access to the worldwide capital markets, subject to market conditions. As of June 30, 2010, the availability under the revolving credit facility was reduced by stand-by letters of credit issued which totaled approximately $71 million. As of June 30, 2010, the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants under the revolving credit facility, and it does not anticipate any violation of such covenants. The Company's internally generated funds are highly dependent upon the state of the advertising markets and public acceptance of its film and television products.
The principal uses of cash that affect the Company's liquidity position include the following: investments in the production and distribution of new feature films and television programs; the acquisition of and payments under programming rights for entertainment and sports programming; paper purchases; operational expenditures including employee costs; capital expenditures; interest expense; income tax payments; investments in associated entities; dividends; acquisitions; and stock repurchases.
In June 2010, the Company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of BSkyB, in which the Company currently has an approximate 39% interest, to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. The Company and the independent members of BSkyB's board of directors were unable to reach a mutually agreeable price at the time of the public announcement; however, the parties entered into a cooperation agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to work together to proceed with the regulatory process in order to facilitate a proposed transaction. There can be no assurance that the Company will make a binding offer. The Company will pay BSkyB a breakup fee of approximately $60 million as of June 30, 2010 if the regulatory approvals are obtained and the Company does not make a binding offer within five months thereafter of at least 700 pence per share. If the Company makes a binding offer and proceeds with the proposed transaction, the Company plans to finance the transaction by using a significant portion of the available cash on its balance sheet plus borrowed funds. Potential fluctuations in the British pound sterling may increase or decrease the amount of cash needed to effect a potential transaction.
 
The Company has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, possible acquisitions and dispositions of certain businesses. Such transactions may be material and may involve cash, the Company's securities or the assumption of additional indebtedness.
Total borrowings decreased approximately $969 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, primarily due to the redemption of the Company's 0.75% Senior Exchangeable BUCS and 5% TOPrS, as well as the retirement of the Company's $150 million 4.75% Senior Debentures due March 2010. These decreases were partially offset by the issuance of the Company's 6.90% Senior Notes due 2039 and 5.65% Senior Notes due 2020 in August 2009. As of June 30, 2010, the Company had $129 million classified as current borrowings. Included in this amount was the remaining balance of the LYONs which is redeemable by option of the holders on February 28, 2011. Also included in current borrowings was bank debt of $48 million due in fiscal 2011. The Company's consolidated cash and cash equivalents of approximately $8.7 billion at June 30, 2010 and internally generated funds are sufficient to meet the Company's foreseeable liquidity needs.
The Company's assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly due to short term liquidity needs. Working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, was $9.2 billion as of June 30, 2010 and $5.2 billion as of June 30, 2009. The increase in working capital reflects the $2 billion increase in cash and cash equivalents discussed below, as well as the $2 billion in repayment of borrowings classified as current in fiscal 2009.
Sources and Uses of Cash  Fiscal 2010 vs. Fiscal 2009
Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 primarily reflects higher profits and worldwide theatrical receipts at the Filmed Entertainment segment, higher affiliate receipts at the Cable Network Programming segment, higher receipts at the book publishing business and lower tax payments. The increase was partially offset by the $500 million payment relating to the settlement of the Valassis litigation, higher payments for programming rights, higher pension contributions and higher interest payments.
Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in millions):
 
Net cash used in investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 decreased as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to a reduction in cash used for acquisitions and lower property, plant and equipment purchases. This was partially offset by lower cash proceeds from disposals. Fiscal 2009 included proceeds from the sale of eight of the Company's television stations and a portion of the Company's interest in NDS. Fiscal 2010 included cash proceeds of $840 million related to the disposition of the financial indexes businesses and $372 million related to the sale of a majority of the Company's eastern European television stations.
Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 is as follows (in millions):
 
Net cash used in financing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 increased as compared to fiscal 2009, primarily due to the redemption of the Company's 0.75% Senior Exchangeable BUCS and 5% TOPrS, as well as the repayment of $150 million Senior Notes due March 2010. The increase in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by the issuance of $600 million 6.90% Senior Notes due 2039 and $400 million 5.65% Senior Notes due 2020 in August 2009.
The total dividends declared related to fiscal 2010 results were $0.15 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In August 2010, the Company declared the final dividend on fiscal 2010 results of $0.075 per share for Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. This together with the interim dividend of $0.075 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock constitute the total dividend relating to fiscal 2010.
 
Based on the number of shares outstanding as of June 30, 2010, the total aggregate cash dividends expected to be paid to stockholders in fiscal 2011 is approximately $393 million.
Sources and Uses of Cash  Fiscal 2009 vs. Fiscal 2008
Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 reflects lower profits and lower worldwide theatrical and home entertainment receipts at the Filmed Entertainment segment, lower advertising receipts and higher payments for sports programming at the Television segment, higher sports and entertainment rights payments at the DBS and Cable Network Programming segments and lower advertising receipts at the newspapers and information services business. Also contributing to this decrease was the absence of the Super Bowl, which was not broadcast on FOX in fiscal 2009, the Stations, which were sold in July 2008, and NDS, which as of the beginning of February 2009 is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. These decreases were partially offset by higher affiliate receipts at the Cable Network Programming segment due to higher average rates per subscriber, lower motion picture production spending at the Filmed Entertainment segment and lower tax payments.
Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in millions):
 
Net cash used in investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a reduction in cash used for acquisitions, which included the Company's acquisitions of Dow Jones and Photobucket and the Company's initial equity investment in Sky Deutschland. Also contributing to the decreased net cash used in investing activities was the $1,011 million net cash proceeds received from the sale of the Stations in July 2008 and $735 million net cash proceeds received from the sale of a portion of the Company's interest in NDS, as well as lower property, plant and equipment purchases which were partially offset by the sale of Gemstar in April 2008.
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in millions):
 
The improvement in financing activities was primarily due to the absence of share repurchases during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Net cash provided by financing activities for fiscal 2009 reflects the issuance of $700 million 6.90% Senior Notes due 2019 and $300 million 7.85% Senior Notes due 2039 in February 2009, partially offset by the retirement of the Company's $200 million 7.38% Senior Note due 2008 and dividend payments. In addition to the share repurchases noted above, cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2008 reflects the retirement of the Company's $350 million 6.625% Senior Notes due 2008, the retirement of the $225 million 3.875% notes due 2008 and $131 million in commercial paper which were assumed as part of the Dow Jones acquisition and dividend payments. Partially offsetting the cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2008 was net proceeds of $1,237 million from the issuance of $1,250 million 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 in November 2007.
The total dividends declared related to fiscal 2009 results were $0.12 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In August 2009, the Company declared the final dividend on fiscal 2009 results of $0.06 per share for Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. This together with the interim dividend of $0.06 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock constitute the total dividend relating to fiscal 2009.
 
Debt Instruments and Guarantees
Debt Instruments
(1)
 
 
Ratings of the Public Debt
The table below summarizes the Company's credit ratings as of June 30, 2010.
 
Revolving Credit Agreement
In May 2007, News America Incorporated ("NAI") entered into a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), among NAI as Borrower, the Company as Parent Guarantor, the lenders named therein (the "Lenders"), Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent. The Credit Agreement provides a $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a sub-limit of $600 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings are in U.S. dollars only, while letters of credit are issuable in U.S. dollars or Euros. The significant terms of the agreement include the requirement that the Company maintain specific leverage ratios and limitations on secured indebtedness. The Company pays a facility fee of 0.08% regardless of facility usage. The Company pays interest for borrowings at LIBOR plus 0.27% and pays commission fees on letters of credit at 0.27%. The Company pays an additional fee of 0.05% if borrowings under the facility exceed 50% of the committed facility. The interest and fees are based on the Company's current debt rating. The maturity date is in May 2012; however, NAI may request a $250 million increase in the amount of the credit facility and may also request that the Lenders' commitments be extended until May 2013. As of June 30, 2010, approximately $71 million in standby letters of credit, for the benefit of third parties, were outstanding.
 
Commitments and Guarantees
The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements ("firm commitments") to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. The following table summarizes the Company's material firm commitments as of June 30, 2010.
 
The Company also has certain contractual arrangements in relation to certain investees that would require the Company to make payments or provide funding if certain circumstances occur ("contingent guarantees"). The Company does not expect that these contingent guarantees will result in any material amounts being paid by the Company in the foreseeable future. The timing of the amounts presented in the table below reflect when the maximum contingent guarantees will expire and does not indicate that the Company expects to incur an obligation to make payments during that time frame.
 
 
Under the Company's contract with NFL, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain football games are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2014.
The Company's contracts with NASCAR give the Company rights to broadcast certain races and ancillary content through calendar year 2014.
Under the Company's contract with the Big Ten Conference, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain Big Ten Conference sporting events are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2032.
Under the Company's contract with Italy's National League Football, remaining future minimum payments for programming rights to broadcast National League Football matches are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2012.
In addition, the Company has certain other local sports broadcasting rights.
 
The table excludes the Company's pension, other postretirement benefits ("OPEB") obligations and the gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount and timing. The Company made contributions of $338 million and $214 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. The majority of these contributions were voluntarily made to improve the funding status of the plans. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates and statutory requirements. Assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with the Company's expected plan returns in fiscal 2011 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company would not be required to make any material contributions to its U.S. pension plans for the immediate future. The Company expects to make a combination of voluntary contributions and statutory contributions of approximately $50 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2011. Payments due to participants under the Company's pension plans are primarily paid out of underlying trusts. Payments due under the Company's OPEB plans are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree medical benefits under the Company's pension plans. The Company expects its OPEB payments to approximate $18 million in fiscal 2011. (See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation for further discussion of the Company's pension and OPEB plans.)
Contingencies
Other than as disclosed in the notes to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation, the Company is party to several purchase and sale arrangements which become exercisable over the next ten years by the Company or the counter-party to the agreement. In the next twelve months, none of these arrangements that become exercisable are material. Purchase arrangements that are exercisable by the counter-party to the agreement, and that are outside the sole control of the Company, are accounted for in accordance with ASC 480-10-S99-3A "Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity." Accordingly, the fair values of such purchase arrangements are classified in redeemable noncontrolling interests.
The Company experiences routine litigation in the normal course of its business. The Company believes that none of its pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
The Company's operations are subject to tax in various domestic and international jurisdictions and as a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of all pending tax matters and does not currently anticipate that the ultimate resolution of pending tax matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it is important to the Company's financial condition and results and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management of the Company and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. For the Company's summary of significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future, actual results may differ from the estimates.
Revenue Recognition
Advertising revenue is recognized as the commercials are aired, net of agency commissions. Subscriber fees received from subscribers, cable systems and DBS operators are recognized as revenue in the period that services are provided, net of amortization of cable distribution investments, in the case of Cable Network Programming revenues. The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
Television, Cable Network Programming and Direct Broadcast Satellite 
- Revenues from distribution of feature films are recognized in accordance with ASC 926-605. Revenues from the theatrical distribution of motion pictures are recognized as they are exhibited and revenues from home video and DVD sales, net of a reserve for estimated returns, together with related costs, are recognized on the date that video and DVD units are made widely available for sale by retailers and all Company-imposed restrictions on the sale of video and DVD units have expired. Revenues from television distribution are recognized when the motion picture or television program is made available to the licensee for broadcast.
Filmed Entertainment
Management bases its estimates of ultimate revenue for each film on the historical performance of similar films, incorporating factors such as the past box office record of the lead actors and actresses, the genre of the film, pre-release market research (including test market screenings) and the expected number of theaters in which the film will be released. Management updates such estimates based on information available on the actual results of each film through its life cycle.
License agreements for the broadcast of theatrical and television product in the broadcast network, syndicated television and cable television markets are routinely entered into in advance of their available date for broadcast. Cash received and amounts billed in connection with such contractual rights for which revenue is not yet recognizable is classified as deferred revenue. Because deferred revenue generally relates to contracts for the licensing of theatrical and television product which have already been produced, the recognition of revenue for such completed product is principally only dependent upon the commencement of the availability period for broadcast under the terms of the related licensing agreement.
Filmed Entertainment and Television Programming Costs
Accounting for the production and distribution of motion pictures and television programming is in accordance with ASC 926-605, which requires management's judgment as it relates to total revenues to be received and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each program or its license period. These judgments are used to determine the amortization of capitalized filmed entertainment and television programming costs, the expensing of participation and residual costs associated with revenues earned and any fair value adjustments.
In accordance with ASC 926-605, the Company amortizes filmed entertainment and television programming costs using the individual-film-forecast method. Under the individual-film-forecast method, such programming costs are amortized for each film or television program in the ratio that current period actual revenue for such title bears to management's estimated ultimate revenue as of the beginning of the current fiscal year to be recognized over approximately a six year period or operating profits to be realized from all media and markets for such title. Management bases its estimates of ultimate revenue for each film on factors such as historical performance of similar films, the star power of the lead actors and actresses and once released actual results of each film. For each television program, management bases its estimates of ultimate revenue on the performance of the television programming in the initial markets, the existence of future firm commitments to sell additional episodes of the program and the past performance of similar television programs. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its total revenue estimates on a title-by-title basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write-down of the asset to fair value.
 
The costs of national sports contracts at FOX and for international sports rights agreements are charged to expense based on the ratio of each period's operating profit to estimated total remaining operating profit of the contract. Estimates of total operating profit can change and accordingly, are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted as necessary. Such changes in the future could be material.
The costs of local and regional sports contracts for a specified number of events are amortized on an event-by-event basis, while costs for local and regional sports contracts for a specified season are amortized over the season on a straight-line basis.
Original cable programming is amortized on an accelerated basis. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its total revenue estimates on a contract basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write-down of the asset to fair value.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of such assets. Changes in circumstances, such as technological advances, changes to the Company's business model or capital strategy, could result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. In those cases, where the Company determines that the useful life of buildings and equipment should be shortened, the Company would depreciate the asset over its revised remaining useful life thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Intangible Assets
The Company has a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, FCC licenses, and other copyright products and trademarks. Intangible assets acquired in business combinations are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recorded as the difference between the cost of acquiring an entity and the estimated fair values assigned to its tangible and identifiable intangible net assets and is assigned to one or more reporting units for purposes of testing for impairment. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of intangible assets acquired, their reporting unit, as well as their useful lives can significantly impact net income.
The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible net assets acquired is recorded as intangibles. Amounts recorded as goodwill are assigned to one or more reporting units. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management's judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples, among other items. Identifying reporting units and assigning goodwill to them requires judgment involving the aggregation of business units with similar economic characteristics and the identification of existing business units that benefit from the acquired goodwill.
Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment in accordance with ASC 350. The Company's impairment review is based on, among other methods, a discounted cash flow approach that requires significant management judgments. The Company uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual valuations. Indicators such as unexpected adverse economic factors, unanticipated technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired.
The Company uses the direct valuation method to value identifiable intangibles for purchase accounting and impairment testing. The direct valuation method used for FCC licenses requires, among other inputs, the use of published industry data that are based on subjective judgments about future advertising revenues in the markets where the Company owns television stations. This method also involves the use of management's judgment in estimating an appropriate discount rate reflecting the risk of a market participant in the U.S. broadcast industry. The resulting fair values for FCC licenses are sensitive to these long-term assumptions and any variations to such assumptions could result in an impairment to existing carrying values in future periods and such impairment could be material.
The Company's goodwill impairment reviews are determined using a two-step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit by primarily using a discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation approach methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, perpetual growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The cash flows employed in the analyses are based on the Company's estimated outlook and various growth rates have been assumed for years beyond the long-term business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units. In assessing the reasonableness of its determined fair values, the Company evaluates its results against other value indicators, such as comparable public company trading values. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds
its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment review is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment review is required to be performed to estimate the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
The Company's annual impairment review of its goodwill and intangible assets for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 resulted in the Company recording impairment charges for its News Outdoor and Fox Mobile businesses which are considered reporting units under ASC 350. The Company continues to monitor certain of its reporting units in the Other segment due to the impairment charges recorded in fiscal 2009 and 2010. Goodwill at risk for future impairment in the Other segment totaled $647 million as of June 30, 2010. The Company will continue to monitor its goodwill and intangible assets for possible future impairment.
Income Taxes
The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company computes its annual tax rate based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to it in the various jurisdictions in which it earns income. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's tax expense and in evaluating its tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties under ASC 740 "Income Taxes."
The Company records valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies. Should a change in circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years, the Company would adjust related valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or charge to income.
Employee Costs
The measurement and recognition of costs of the Company's various pension and other postretirement benefit plans require the use of significant management judgments, including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, future compensation and other actuarial assumptions.
The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans covering a significant number of its employees and retirees. The primary plans have been closed to the majority of employees hired after January 1, 2008. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension expense (income) is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The Company considers current market conditions, including changes in investment returns and interest rates, in making these assumptions. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, the Company considered the pension portfolio's past average rate of returns, and future return expectations of the various asset classes. The expected long-term rate of return is based on an asset allocation assumption of 52% equities, 37% fixed-income securities and 11% in cash and other investments.
The discount rate reflects the market rate for high-quality fixed-income investments on the Company's annual measurement date of June 30 and is subject to change each fiscal year. The discount rate assumptions used to account for pension and other postretirement benefit plans reflect the rates at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. The rate was determined by matching the Company's expected benefit payments for the primary plans to a hypothetical yield curve developed using a portfolio of several hundred high-quality non-callable corporate bonds.
 
The key assumptions used in developing the Company's fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 net periodic pension expense (income) for its plans consist of the following:
 
The weighted average discount rate is volatile from year to year because it is determined based upon the prevailing rates in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia as of the measurement date. The Company will utilize a weighted average discount rate of 5.7% in calculating the fiscal 2011 net periodic pension expense for its plans. The Company will continue to use a weighted average long-term rate of return of 7.0% for fiscal 2011 based principally on a combination of asset mix and historical experience of actual plan returns. The accumulated net losses on the Company's pension plans at June 30, 2010 were $940 million which increased from $663 million at June 30, 2009. This increase of $277 million was due primarily to lower discount rates. Lower discount rates increase present values of benefit obligations and increase the Company's deferred losses and also increase subsequent-year pension expense. Higher discount rates decrease the present values of benefit obligations and reduce the Company's accumulated net loss and also decrease subsequent-year pension expense. The net accumulated losses at June 30, 2010 were primarily the result of changes in discount rates and deferred asset losses. These deferred losses are being systematically recognized into future net periodic pension expense in accordance with ASC 715 "CompensationRetirement Benefits." Unrecognized losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plans projected benefit obligation are recognized over the average future service of the plan participants.
The Company made contributions of $338 million, $214 million and $57 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The majority of these contributions were voluntarily made to improve the funding status of the plans which were impacted by the economic conditions noted above. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns, statutory requirements and interest rate movements. Assuming that actual plan returns are consistent with the Company's expected plan returns in fiscal 2010 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company would not be required to make any material statutory contributions to its primary U.S. pension plans for the immediate future. The Company will continue to make voluntary contributions as necessary to improve funded status.
Changes in net periodic pension expense may occur in the future due to changes in the Company's expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events. The following table highlights the sensitivity of the Company's pension obligations and expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant:
 
Net periodic pension expense for the Company's pension plans is expected to be approximately $160 million in fiscal 2011. The increase is primarily due to the amortization of deferred asset losses.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation for discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

 
Exhibit 99.4
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NEWS CORPORATION
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of News Corporation:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of News Corporation as of June 30, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows, and equity and other comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of News Corporation at June 30, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), News Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 6, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
New York, New York
August 6, 2010,
except for Note 19
as to which the date is November 3, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
News Corporation and its subsidiaries (together, "News Corporation" or the "Company") is a Delaware corporation. News Corporation is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in six segments: Cable Network Programming, which principally consists of the production and licensing of programming distributed through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators primarily in the United States, Latin America, Europe and Asia; Filmed Entertainment, which principally consists of the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production of original television programming worldwide; Television, which principally consists of the broadcasting of network programming in the United States and the operation of 27 full power broadcast television stations, including nine duopolies, in the United States (of these stations, 17 are affiliated with the Fox Broadcasting Company ("FOX") and ten are affiliated with MyNetworkTV Programming Distribution Service, Inc. ("MyNetworkTV") programming distribution service); Direct Broadcast Satellite Television, which consists of the distribution of basic and premium programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in Italy; Publishing which principally consists of the publication of newspapers in the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States as well as the provision of information services, the publication of English language books throughout the world and the publication of free-standing inserts and provision of in-store marketing products and services in the United States and Canada; and Other, which includes the Company's digital media properties and News Outdoor Group ("News Outdoor"), an advertising business which offers display advertising primarily in outdoor locations throughout Russia and Eastern Europe.
NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries. In addition, the Company evaluates its relationships with other entities to identify whether they are variable interest entities as defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 810-10, "Consolidation" ("ASC 810-10"), and to assess whether it is the primary beneficiary of such entities. If the determination is made that the Company is the primary beneficiary, then that entity is consolidated in accordance with ASC 810-10. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation, including the intercompany portion of transactions with equity method investees.
Changes in the Company's ownership interest in a consolidated subsidiary where a controlling financial interest is retained are accounted for as a capital transaction. When the Company ceases to have a controlling interest in a consolidated subsidiary the Company will recognize a gain or loss in net income upon deconsolidation.
Certain fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation.
The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30. Fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 were comprised of 52 weeks and ended on June 27, 2010, June 28, 2009 and June 29, 2008, respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30.
Use of estimates
The preparation of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less.
Concentration of credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. The Company has deposits held with banks that exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk.
 
 
 
Receivables, net
Receivables, net are presented net of an allowance for returns and doubtful accounts, which is an estimate of amounts that may not be collectible. In determining the allowance for returns, management analyzes historical returns, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of the Company's products. Based on this information, management reserves a percentage of each dollar of product sales that provide the customer with the right of return. The allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on historical experience, receivable aging, current economic trends and specific identification of certain receivables that are at risk of not being paid. In light of the recent volatility in the global economies, the Company's estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of its receivables have become subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods.
Receivables, net consist of:
 
Inventories
Filmed Entertainment Costs:
In accordance with ASC 926-605, "Entertainment Films Revenue Recognition" ("ASC 926-605") Filmed Entertainment costs include capitalized production costs, overhead and capitalized interest costs, net of any amounts received from outside investors. These costs, as well as participations and talent residuals, are recognized as operating expenses on an individual film or network series basis in the ratio that fiscal 2010's gross revenues bear to management's estimate of total remaining ultimate gross revenues. Television production costs incurred in excess of the amount of revenue contracted for each episode in the initial market are expensed as incurred on an episode-by-episode basis. Estimates for initial syndication and basic cable revenues are not included in the estimated lifetime revenues of network series until such sales are probable. Television production costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of secondary markets are capitalized and amortized. Marketing costs and development costs under term deals are charged as operating expenses as incurred. Development costs for projects not produced are written-off at the earlier of the time the decision is made not to develop the story or after three years.
Filmed Entertainment costs are stated at the lower of unamortized cost or estimated fair value on an individual motion picture or television product basis. Revenue forecasts for both motion pictures and television products are continually reviewed by management and revised when warranted by changing conditions. When estimates of total revenues and other events or changes in circumstances indicate that a motion picture or television production has a fair value that is less than its unamortized cost, a loss is recognized currently for the amount by which the unamortized cost exceeds the film or television production's fair value.
Programming Costs:
In accordance with ASC 920, "Entertainment  Broadcasters," costs incurred in acquiring program rights or producing programs for the Television, DBS and Cable Network Programming segments are capitalized and amortized over the license period or projected useful life of the programming. Program rights and the related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable and the program is accepted and available for airing. Television broadcast network and original cable programming are amortized on an accelerated basis. The Company has single and multi-year contracts for broadcast rights of programs and sporting events. At the inception of these contracts and at least annually, the Company evaluates the recoverability of the costs associated therewith, using aggregate estimated advertising and other revenues directly attributable to the program material and related expenses. Where an evaluation indicates that a multi-year contract will result in an ultimate loss, additional amortization is provided. The costs of national sports contracts at FOX are charged to expense based on the ratio of each period's operating profits to estimated total remaining operating profit of the contract. Estimates of total operating profit can change and, accordingly, are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted as necessary. Such changes in the future could be material.
 
 
 
The costs of local and regional sports contracts for a specified number of events are amortized on an event-by-event basis while costs for local and regional sports contracts for a specified season are amortized over the season on a straight-line basis.
Inventories for other divisions are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is primarily determined by the first in, first out average cost method or by specific identification.
Investments
Investments in and advances to equity or joint ventures in which the Company has significant influence, but less than a controlling voting interest, are accounted for using the equity method. Significant influence is generally presumed to exist when the Company owns an interest between 20% and 50% and exercises significant influence. In certain circumstances, investments for which the Company owns more than 50% but does not control policy decisions would be accounted for by the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting the Company includes its investment and amounts due to and from its equity method investments in its consolidated balance sheets. The Company's consolidated statements of operations include the Company's share of the investees' earnings (losses) and the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows include all cash received from or paid to the investee.
The difference between the Company's investment and its share of the fair value of the underlying net assets of the investee is first allocated to either finite-lived intangibles or indefinite-lived intangibles and the balance is attributed to goodwill. The Company follows ASC 350, "IntangiblesGoodwill and Other" ("ASC 350"), which requires that equity method finite-lived intangibles be amortized over their estimated useful life while indefinite-lived intangibles and goodwill are not amortized.
Investments in which the Company has no significant influence (generally less than a 20% ownership interest) or does not exert significant influence are designated as available-for-sale investments if readily determinable market values are available. If an investment's fair value is not readily determinable, the Company accounts for its investment at cost. The Company reports available-for-sale investments at fair value based on quoted market prices. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes and other adjustments until the investment is sold or considered impaired. Dividends and other distributions of earnings from available-for-sale investments and cost investments are included in Interest income in the consolidated statements of operations when declared.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of two to 50 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of their useful lives or the life of the lease. Costs associated with the repair and maintenance of property are expensed as incurred. Changes in circumstances, such as technological advances or changes to the Company's business model or capital strategy, could result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. In those cases where the Company determines that the useful life of buildings and equipment should be shortened, the Company would depreciate the asset over its revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Goodwill and intangible assets
The Company has a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, film and television libraries, Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") licenses, newspaper mastheads, distribution networks, publishing rights and other copyright products and trademarks. Goodwill is recorded as the difference between the cost of acquiring entities and amounts assigned to their tangible and identifiable intangible net assets. In accordance with ASC 350, the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of FCC licenses, are tested annually for impairment or earlier if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below its carrying amount. Intangible assets with finite lives are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives. This impairment assessment of indefinite-lived intangibles compares the fair value of these intangible assets to their carrying value.
The Company's goodwill impairment reviews are determined using a two-step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment review is not necessary. If the
 
 
carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment review is required to be performed to estimate the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
Asset impairments
Investments
Equity method investments are regularly reviewed for impairment by initially comparing their fair value to their respective carrying amounts each quarter. The Company determines the fair value of its public company investments by reference to their publicly traded stock price. With respect to private company investments, the Company makes its estimate of fair value by considering other available information, including recent investee equity transactions, discounted cash flow analyses, estimates based on comparable public company operating multiples and, in certain situations, balance sheet liquidation values. If the fair value of the investment has dropped below the carrying amount, management considers several factors when determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in market value has occurred, including the length of the time and extent to which the market value has been below cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, the intent and ability of the Company to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value and other factors influencing the fair market value, such as general market conditions.
The Company regularly reviews available-for-sale investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related market value, the duration of the market decline, the Company's ability to hold until recovery and the financial strength and specific prospects of the issuer of the security.
The Company regularly reviews investments accounted for at cost for other-than-temporary impairment based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related estimated fair value, the duration of the estimated fair value decline, the Company's ability to hold until recovery and the financial strength and specific prospects of the issuer of the security.
Long-lived assets
ASC 360, "Property, Plant, and Equipment," ("ASC 360") and ASC 350 require that the Company periodically review the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, to determine whether current events or circumstances indicate that such carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of the asset is greater than the expected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by such asset, an impairment adjustment is recognized if the carrying value of such assets exceeds their fair value. The Company generally measures fair value by considering sale prices for similar assets or by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate the fair value of assets, accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. Assets to be disposed of are carried at the lower of their financial statement carrying amount or fair value less their costs to sell.
Financial instruments
The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents and cost investments, approximate fair value. The fair value of financial instruments is generally determined by reference to market values resulting from trading on a national securities exchange or in an over-the-counter market. Derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, such as exchangeable securities, are separated into their host and derivative financial instrument components. The derivative component is recorded at its estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value recorded in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations.
The TOPrS warrants and the BUCS were exercisable/convertible into ordinary shares of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc ("BSkyB"). During fiscal 2010, the Company redeemed all of its outstanding TOPrS and BUCS (See Note 11  Exchangeable Securities). The Company used the following assumptions to determine the fair value of the TOPrS warrants as of June 30, 2009: Stock price: $7.42; Exercise price: $10.80; Historical volatility: 18.9%; Risk free rate: 2.83%; Expected term: 7.38 years; and Dividend yield: 2.4%.
In determining the fair value of the BUCS conversion feature, the Company calculated the difference between (i) the average of the bid and asked prices for the BUCS as of each valuation date and (ii) the estimated value of a "straight" bond (i.e., no exchange feature) using the period from the valuation date to the date of the first put. Key assumptions as of June 30, 2009 used to estimate the value of the straight bond were as follows: News Corporation credit spread: 73bps; and Risk-free rate: 1.33%.
 
 
 
Guarantees
The Company follows ASC 460, "Guarantees" ("ASC 460"). ASC 460 requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing certain guarantees.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the fees are fixed or determinable, the product or service has been delivered and collectability is reasonably assured. The Company considers the terms of each arrangement to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.
Television, Cable Network Programming and DBS:
Advertising revenue is recognized as the commercials are aired. Subscriber fees received from cable systems and DBS operators for cable network programming are recognized as revenue in the period services are provided. DBS subscription and pay-per-view revenues are recognized when programming is broadcast to subscribers, while fees for equipment rental are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
The Company classifies the amortization of cable distribution investments (capitalized fees paid to a cable or DBS operator to facilitate the launch of a cable network) against revenue in accordance with ASC 605-50, "Revenue RecognitionCustomer Payments and Incentives" ("ASC 605-50"). The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
Filmed Entertainment:
Revenues are recognized in accordance with ASC 926-605. Revenues from the distribution of motion pictures are recognized as they are exhibited, and revenues from home entertainment sales, net of a reserve for estimated returns, are recognized on the date that DVD units are made available for sale by retailers and all Company-imposed restrictions on the sale of DVD units have expired.
License agreements for the broadcast of theatrical and television product in the broadcast network, syndicated television and cable television markets are routinely entered into in advance of their available date for broadcast. Cash received and amounts billed in connection with such contractual rights for which revenue is not yet recognizable is classified as deferred revenue. Because deferred revenue generally relates to contracts for the licensing of theatrical and television products which have already been produced, the recognition of revenue for such completed product is principally only dependent upon the commencement of the availability period for broadcast under the terms of the related licensing agreement.
Publishing
Advertising revenue from newspapers and integrated marketing services is recognized when the advertisements are published. Subscription revenues from the Company's print and online publications and electronic information services is recognized as earned, pro rata on a per-issue basis, over the subscription period. Revenues earned from book publishing are recognized upon passing of control to the buyer.
Sales returns
Consistent with industry practice, certain of the Company's products, such as home entertainment products, books and newspapers, are sold with the right of return. The Company records, as a reduction of revenue, the estimated impact of such returns. In determining the estimate of product sales that will be returned, management analyzes historical returns, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of the Company's product. Based on this information, management reserves a percentage of each dollar of product sales that provide the customer with the right of return.
Multiple Element Arrangements
Revenues or costs derived from contracts that contain multiple products and services are allocated based on the relative fair value of each delivered or purchased item. If the Company has fair value evidence for each product or service being delivered or purchased, it accounts for each separately, based on the relevant revenue or cost recognition accounting policies. In the event the fair value of the two elements cannot be established, revenue or expense would be recognized over the term of the contract.
 
 
 
Subscriber acquisition costs
Subscriber acquisition costs in the DBS segment primarily consist of amounts paid for third-party customer acquisitions, which consist of the cost of commissions paid to authorized retailers and dealers for subscribers added through their respective distribution channels and the cost of hardware and installation subsidies for subscribers. All costs, including hardware, installation and commissions, are expensed upon activation. However, where legal ownership is retained in the equipment, the cost of the equipment is capitalized and depreciated over the useful life. Additional components of subscriber acquisition costs include the cost of print, radio and television advertising, which are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expenses
The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred, including advertising expenses for theatrical and television product in accordance with ASC 720-35, "Other Expenses - Advertising Cost." Advertising expenses recognized totaled $2.5 billion for each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008.
Translation of foreign currencies
Income and expense accounts of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are translated into U.S. dollars using the current rate method, whereby trading results are converted at the average rate of exchange for the period and assets and liabilities are converted at the closing rates on the period end date. The resulting translation adjustments are accumulated as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are included in income for the period.
Capitalization of interest
Interest cost on funds invested in major projects, primarily theatrical productions, with substantial development and construction phases are capitalized until production or operations commence. Once production or operations commence, the interest costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized interest is amortized over future periods on a basis consistent with that of the project to which it relates. Total interest capitalized was $44 million, $55 million and $44 million, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Amortization of capitalized interest for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $73 million, $50 million and $33 million, respectively.
Income taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, "Income Taxes" ("ASC 740"). ASC 740 requires an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability approach, deferred taxes are provided for the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Valuation allowances are established where management determines that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Deferred taxes have not been provided on the cumulative undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries to the extent amounts are expected to be reinvested indefinitely.
On July 1, 2007, the Company adopted the additional provisions of ASC 740 relating to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, which did not have a material impact to the Company's liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The effects of the initial adoption on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2007 included an increase in Other liabilities of approximately $1.2 billion offset by a similar reduction in deferred income taxes as of July 1, 2007.
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share for the Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class A Common Stock"), and Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class B Common Stock") is calculated by dividing Net income (loss) attributable to News Corporation stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock outstanding. Diluted earnings per share for Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock is calculated similarly, except that the calculation includes the dilutive effect of the assumed issuance of shares issuable under the Company's equity-based compensation plans and the dilutive effect of convertible securities.
 
 
 
Comprehensive income
The Company follows ASC 220, "Comprehensive Income," for the reporting and display of comprehensive income. The components of accumulated comprehensive income were as follows:
 
 
Equity based compensation
The Company accounts for share based payments in accordance with ASC 718, "CompensationStock Compensation" ("ASC 718"). ASC 718 requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. ASC 718 establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for generally all share-based payment transactions with employees.
Derivatives
ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging" ("ASC 815"), requires every derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value as either an asset or a liability (See Note 7  Fair Value). ASC 815 also requires that changes in the fair value of recorded derivatives be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
The Company uses financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges to hedge its limited exposures to foreign currency exchange risks associated with the costs for producing or acquiring films and television programming abroad. All cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. (See Note 7  Fair Value) The effective changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income with foreign currency translation adjustments. Amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item is recognized in earnings. If derivatives are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are recorded in earnings as Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations. (See Note 11 - Exchangeable Securities)
 
 
 
Recent accounting pronouncements
On July 1, 2009, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC 805 "Business Combinations" ("ASC 805"), which significantly changed the Company's accounting for business combinations on a prospective basis in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs and restructuring costs. In addition, under ASC 805, changes in an acquired entity's deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period are included in income tax expense.
On July 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new provisions of ASC 810 "Consolidation" ("ASC 810"), which changed the accounting and reporting for minority interests. As a result of the adoption of these provisions, minority interests have been recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity, with the exception of redeemable noncontrolling interests. In accordance with ASC 810, the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing noncontrolling interests were applied retrospectively. All other requirements of these provisions were applied prospectively.
On July 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new provisions of ASC 350, which set forth the factors to be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognizable intangible asset and is intended to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognizable intangible asset and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of that asset. This adoption changed the Company's determination of useful lives for intangible assets on a prospective basis.
On July 1, 2009, the Company adopted the additional provisions of ASC 820 "Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure" ("ASC 820"), which apply to non-recurring fair value measurements of non-financial assets and liabilities, such as measurement of potential impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets, other long-lived assets and non-financial assets held by a pension plan. These additional provisions also apply to the fair value measurements of non-financial assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. The Company's adoption of the additional provisions of ASC 820 did not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In August 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2009-05 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820) - - Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value" ("ASU 2009-05"). ASU 2009-05 amends Subtopic 820-10 "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  Overall" and provides clarification on the methods to be used in circumstances in which a quoted price in an active market for the identical liability is not available.
In June 2010, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC 715 "Compensation  Retirement Benefits," which expand the disclosure requirements of defined benefit plans. The expanded disclosure requirements include: (i) investment policies and strategies; (ii) the major categories of plan assets; (iii) the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure plan assets; (iv) the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs on changes in plan assets for the period; and (v) significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. (See Note 17Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits)
-
On July 1, 2010, the Company adopted the new provisions of ASC 810-10-65-2, "Transition Related to FASB Statement No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)". ASC 810-10-65-2 changed the approach to determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity ("VIE") and required companies to regularly assess whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The Company's adoption of ASC 810-10-65-2 did not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSALS AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Fiscal 2010 Transactions
During fiscal year 2010, the Company completed two transactions related to its financial indexes businesses:
The Company sold its 33% interest in STOXX AG ("STOXX"), a European market index provider, to its partners, Deutsche Brse AG and SIX Group AG, for approximately $300 million in cash. The Company is entitled to receive additional consideration up to approximately $40 million if STOXX achieves certain revenue targets in calendar year 2010.
The Company and CME Group Inc. ("CME") formed a joint venture to operate a global financial index service business (the "Venture"), to which the Company contributed its Dow Jones Indexes business valued at $675 million (which included the Company's agreement to provide to the Venture an annual media credit for advertising on the Company's Dow Jones media properties averaging approximately $3.5 million a year for a ten year term) and CME contributed a business which provides certain market data
 
 
services valued at $608 million. The Company and CME own 10% and 90% of the Venture, respectively. The Venture issued approximately $613 million in third-party debt due in March 2018 that has been guaranteed by CME (the "Venture Financing"). The Venture used the proceeds from the debt issuance to make a special distribution at the time of the closing of approximately $600 million solely to the Company. The Company agreed to indemnify CME with respect to any payments of principal, premium and interest that CME makes under its guarantee of the Venture Financing and certain refinancing of such debt. In the event the Company is required to perform under this indemnity, the Company will be subrogated to and acquire all rights of CME. The maximum potential amount of undiscounted future payments related to this indemnity was approximately $828 million at June 30, 2010. The Company made a determination that there is no recognition of this potential future payment in the accompanying financial statements.
The Company has the right to cause the Venture to purchase its 10% interest at fair market value in 2016 and the Venture has the right to call the Company's 10% interest at fair market value in 2017.
The Company's interest in the Venture was recorded at fair value of $67.5 million, which was determined using an earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") multiple and market-based valuation approach methodologies, and is now accounted for under the cost method of accounting. The net income, assets, liabilities, and cash flow attributable to the Dow Jones Indexes business are not material to the Company in any of the periods presented and, accordingly, have not been presented separately.
The Company recorded a combined loss of approximately $23 million on both of these transactions, which was included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010.
During fiscal 2010, the Company sold the majority of its terrestrial television operations in Eastern Europe led by the sale of its Bulgarian terrestrial TV business, bTV. The aggregate cash received in connection with these sales was approximately $372 million, net of expense, and a gain of approximately $195 million on these sales was included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The Company continues to operate a terrestrial TV business, FOX TV, a Turkish national general interest free-to-air broadcast television station. The net income, assets, liabilities and cash flow attributable to the terrestrial television operations sold are not material to the Company in any of the periods presented and, accordingly, have not been presented separately.
In June 2010, the Company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of BSkyB, in which the Company currently has an approximate 39% interest, to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. The Company and the independent members of BSkyB's board of directors were unable to reach a mutually agreeable price at the time of the public announcement; however, the parties entered into a cooperation agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to work together to proceed with the regulatory process in order to facilitate a proposed transaction. There can be no assurance that the Company will make a binding offer. The Company will pay BSkyB a breakup fee of approximately $60 million as of June 20, 2010 if the regulatory approvals are obtained and the Company does not make a binding offer within five months thereafter of at least 700 pence per share. The Company believes that a potential transaction will result in increased geographic diversification of the Company's earnings base and reduce its exposure to cyclical advertising revenues through an increase in direct consumer subscription revenues. If the Company makes a binding offer and proceeds with the proposed transaction, the Company plans to finance the transaction by using a significant portion of the available cash on its balance sheet plus borrowed funds.
Fiscal 2009 Transactions
Acquisitions
In October 2008, the Company purchased VeriSign Inc.'s ("VeriSign") noncontrolling interest of the Jamba joint venture, which has been included in the Fox Mobile Group ("Fox Mobile"), for approximately $193 million in cash, increasing the Company's interest to 100%. During fiscal 2010, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to Fox Mobile's fixed assets. During fiscal 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded impairment charges relating to Fox Mobile's goodwill and finite-lived intangible assets. (See Note 9  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets)
In January 2009, the Company and Asianet TV Holdings Private Limited ("Asianet") formed a venture ("Star Jupiter") to provide general entertainment channels in southern India. The Company paid approximately $235 million in cash and assumed net debt of approximately $20 million for a controlling interest in four of Asianet's channels which were combined with one of the Company's existing channels. The Company has a controlling interest in this new venture and, accordingly, began consolidating the results in January 2009. In July 2010, the Company paid approximately $90 million in cash to increase its ownership stake to approximately 75%.
 
 
 
Disposals
In July 2008, the Company completed the sale of eight of its owned-and-operated FOX network affiliated television stations (the "Stations") for approximately $1 billion in cash. The Stations included: WJW in Cleveland, OH; KDVR in Denver, CO; KTVI in St. Louis, MO; WDAF in Kansas City, MO; WITI in Milwaukee, WI; KSTU in Salt Lake City, UT; WBRC in Birmingham, AL; and WGHP in Greensboro, NC. In connection with the transaction, the Stations entered into new affiliation agreements with the Company to receive network programming and assumed existing contracts with the Company for syndicated programming. No portion of the sale proceeds were allocated to the new network affiliation agreements as they were negotiated at fair value and are consistent with similar pre-existing contracts with other third party-owned FOX affiliated stations. In addition, the Company recorded a gain of approximately $232 million in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
In November 2008, the Company sold its ownership stake in a Polish television broadcaster to the remaining shareholders. The Company recognized a net loss of approximately $100 million on the disposal which was included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
Other transactions
In February 2009, the Company, two newly incorporated subsidiaries of funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP (the "Permira Newcos") and the Company's then majority-owned, publicly-held subsidiary, NDS Group plc ("NDS"), completed a transaction pursuant to which all issued and outstanding NDS Series A ordinary shares, including those represented by American Depositary Shares traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, were acquired for per-share consideration of $63 in cash (the "NDS Transaction"). As part of the transaction, approximately 67% of the NDS Series B ordinary shares held by the Company were exchanged for $63 per share in a mix of approximately $1.5 billion in cash, which included $780 million of cash retained upon the deconsolidation of NDS, and a $242 million vendor note. Immediately prior to the consummation of the NDS Transaction, the Company owned approximately 72% of NDS through its ownership of all of the outstanding NDS Series B ordinary shares and, accordingly, included the results of NDS in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. As a result of the transaction, NDS ceased to be a public company and the Permira Newcos and the Company now own approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively. The Company's remaining interest in NDS is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. A gain of $1.2 billion was recognized on the sale of the Company's interest and is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
Fiscal 2008 Transactions
Acquisitions
In July 2007, the Company acquired Photobucket, a web-based provider of photo- and video-sharing services, for a total purchase price of approximately $287 million, of which $237 million was in cash and $50 million was in deferred consideration. The initial $25 million of deferred consideration was paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and the remaining $25 million was paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2010. In December 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to transfer the equity and related assets of Photobucket to a mobile photo uploading platform in exchange for an equity interest in the acquirer and cash. A loss of approximately $32 million on this transaction was included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. As a result of this transaction, the Company's interest in the acquirer, which is not material, was recorded at fair value and is now accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
On December 13, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of Dow Jones & Company, Inc. ("Dow Jones") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 31, 2007, by and among the Company, Ruby Newco LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Ruby Newco"), Dow Jones and Diamond Merger Sub Corporation, as amended (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Dow Jones common stock was converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder, either (x) $60.00 in cash or (y) 2.8681 Class B common units of Ruby Newco. Each Class B common unit of Ruby Newco is convertible into a share of News Corporation Class A common stock par value $0.01 per share ("Class A Common Stock"). The consideration for the acquisition was approximately $5,700 million which consisted of: $5,150 million in cash, assumed net debt of approximately $330 million and approximately $200 million in equity instruments. The results of Dow Jones have been included in the Company's consolidated statements of operations from December 13, 2007.
 
 
 
As part of the Dow Jones acquisition, the Company assumed total debt of $378 million which consisted of: 3.875% notes due 2008 in the amount of $225 million, $131 million in commercial paper and a $22 million variable interest rate note.
In addition, in December 2007, the Company issued approximately 8 million Class B common units of Ruby Newco, approximately 7 million stock options and approximately 500,000 restricted stock units ("RSUs") over Class A Common Stock. The total fair value of these instruments was approximately $200 million. As of June 30, 2010, approximately 7.7 million Class B common units of Ruby Newco had been converted into shares of Class A Common Stock.
The acquisition of Dow Jones was effected in December 2007 to position the Company as a leader in the financial news and information market and to enhance its ability to adapt to future challenges and opportunities within the Publishing segment and across the Company's other related business segments.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price is allocated to Dow Jones' net tangible and intangible assets based upon Dow Jones' estimated fair value as of the date of completion of the acquisition. Based upon the purchase price and the valuation performed, the purchase price allocation is as follows (in millions):
 
The Company allocated approximately $700 million to amortizable intangible assets, primarily consisting of subscriber relationship intangible assets. The pattern of economic benefits to be derived from certain amortizable intangible assets is estimated to be greater in the initial period of ownership. Accordingly, amortization expense is recognized on an accelerated basis over the remaining weighted-average useful life of 25 years. The Company also allocated approximately $1,700 million to trade names, which will not be amortized as they have an indefinite remaining useful life based primarily on their market position and the Company's plans for continued indefinite use. Further, approximately $4,300 million was allocated to goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The goodwill is not being amortized in accordance with ASC 350, and is not deductible for tax purposes. Upon the completion of the final valuation in December 2008, all of the goodwill was allocated to the Publishing segment. During fiscal 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to the Dow Jones goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $2.8 billion which is not reflected in the table above. (See Note 9  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets)
The aforementioned acquisitions were all accounted for in accordance with ASC 805.
Disposals
In June 2008, the Company sold a parcel of land it owned in the United Kingdom, for total consideration of $163 million. The consideration at closing was comprised of $91 million in cash and a $72 million note, secured by the land, payable in three equal annual installments, of which two installments had been paid as of June 30, 2010. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $126 million on the transaction which is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
 
 
 
Share Exchange Agreement
In February 2008, the Company closed the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement (the "Share Exchange Agreement") with Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty"). Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, Liberty exchanged its entire interest in the Company's common stock (approximately 325 million shares of Class A Common Stock and 188 million shares of Class B Common Stock for 100% of the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, whose holdings consisted of the Company's approximate 41% interest (approximately 470 million shares) in The DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DIRECTV") constituting the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV, three of the Company's Regional Sports Networks ("RSNs") (FSN Northwest, FSN Pittsburgh and FSN Rocky Mountain) (the "Three RSNs") and approximately $625 million in cash (the "Exchange"). The Exchange resulted in the divestiture of the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV and the Three RSNs to Liberty. The Company measured the fair market value of the shares received from Liberty at the February 27, 2008 New York Stock Exchange closing price of the Class A Common Stock (NWS-A) and Class B Common Stock (NWS) as the value of the shares was more clearly evident than the fair value of the assets surrendered. A tax-free gain of $1.7 billion on the Exchange was recognized in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations in fiscal 2008. Upon closing of the Exchange, the Company entered into a non-competition agreement with DIRECTV and non-competition agreements with each of the Three RSNs, in each case, restricting its right to compete for a period of four years with DIRECTV and the Three RSNs in the respective regions in which such entities were operating on the closing date of the Exchange.
NOTE 4. RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMS
Fiscal 2010 Programs
During fiscal 2010, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $53 million. The restructuring charges in fiscal 2010 reflect an $18 million charge related to the sales and distribution operations of the STAR channels, $19 million related to termination benefits recorded at the Publishing segment and a $16 million charge at the Other segment related to the restructuring program at Fox Mobile and accretion on facility termination obligations.
Fiscal 2009 Programs
In fiscal 2009, certain of the markets in which the Company's businesses operate experienced a weakening in the economic climate, which adversely affected advertising revenue and other consumer driven spending. As a result, a number of the Company's businesses implemented a series of operational actions to address the Company's cost structure, including the restructuring of the Company's digital media properties to align resources more closely with business priorities. This restructuring program included significant job reductions, both domestically and internationally, to enable the businesses to operate on a more cost effective basis. In conjunction with this project the Company also eliminated excess facility requirements. In fiscal 2009, several other businesses of the Company implemented similar plans including the U.K. and Australian newspapers, HarperCollins, MyNetworkTV and Fox Television Stations. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges in accordance with ASC 420, "Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations", of approximately $312 million. These charges consist of severance costs, facility related costs and other associated costs. The restructuring charges primarily relate to $20 million recorded at the Television segment, $107 million recorded at the Publishing segment and $182 million recorded at the Other segment during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The Other segment included charges of approximately $178 million related to the Company's digital media properties, $148 million of which was recorded for facility related costs.
 
 
 
Changes in the program liabilities were as follows:
 
The Company expects to record an additional $50 million of restructuring charges, principally related to accretion on facility termination obligations through 2021. At June 30, 2010, restructuring liabilities of approximately $80 million and $112 million were included in the consolidated balance sheets in other current liabilities and other liabilities, respectively. Other liabilities primarily relate to additional accretion on facility termination obligations which are expected to be paid through fiscal 2021.
Dow Jones
As a result of the Dow Jones acquisition in fiscal 2008, the Company established and approved plans to integrate the acquired operations into the Company's other newspapers and information services businesses. The cost to implement these plans consists of separation payments for certain Dow Jones executives under the change in control plan Dow Jones had established prior to the acquisition, non-cancelable lease commitments and lease termination charges for leased facilities that have or will be exited and other contract termination costs associated with the restructuring activities. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company recorded additional amounts relating to separation payments and non-cancelable lease commitments as purchase accounting adjustments.
Changes in the plan liabilities were as follows:
 
The balance of the plan liabilities as of June 30, 2010 primarily includes facility related costs.
 
 
 
NOTE 5. INVENTORIES
As of June 30, 2010, the Company's inventories were comprised of the following:
 
 
As of June 30, 2010, the Company estimated that approximately 71% of unamortized filmed entertainment costs from the completed films are expected to be amortized during fiscal 2011 and approximately 96% of released filmed entertainment costs will be amortized within the next three fiscal years. During fiscal 2011, the Company expects to pay $1,200 million in accrued participation liabilities, which are included in participations, residuals and royalties payable on the consolidated balance sheets. At June 30, 2010, acquired film and television libraries had remaining unamortized film costs of $86 million, which are generally amortized using the individual film forecast method over a remaining period of approximately one to 11 years.
 
 
 
NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS
As of June 30, 2010, the Company's investments were comprised of the following:
 
 
The cost basis, unrealized gains, unrealized losses and fair market value of available-for-sale investments are set forth below:
 
The Company reclassified gains of $3 million, nil and $12 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to the consolidated statements of operations, based on the specific identification method, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Equity Earnings (Losses) of Affiliates
The Company's share of the earnings (losses) of its equity affiliates was as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with ASC 350, the Company amortized $7 million and $10 million in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to amounts allocated to finite-lived intangible assets. Such amortization is reflected in equity earnings (losses) of affiliates.
Fiscal 2010 Transactions
During fiscal 2010, the Company acquired additional shares of Sky Deutschland, increasing its ownership from approximately 38% at June 30, 2009 to approximately 45% at June 30, 2010. The aggregate cost of the shares acquired was approximately $200 million and the majority of the shares were newly registered shares issued pursuant to a capital increase.
During fiscal 2010, the Company acquired an approximate 9% interest in Rotana Holding FZ-LLC ("Rotana"), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the Middle East and North Africa, for $70 million. A significant stockholder of the Company, who owns approximately 7% of the Company's Class B Common stock, owns a controlling interest in Rotana. The Company has an option to purchase an approximate 9% additional interest for $70 million through November 2011. The Company also has an option to sell its interest in Rotana in fiscal year 2015 at the higher of the price per share based on a bona fide sale offer or the original subscription price.
In June 2010, the Company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of BSkyB, in which the Company currently has an approximate 39% interest, to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the BSkyB shares that the Company does not already own. The Company and the independent members of BSkyB's board of directors were unable to reach a mutually agreeable price at the time of the public announcement; however, the parties entered into a cooperation agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to work together to proceed with the regulatory process in order to facilitate a proposed transaction. (See Note 3  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions for further discussion)
Fiscal 2009 Transactions
Investment in Sky Deutschland
The Company invested an aggregate of approximately $300 million in shares of Sky Deutschland during fiscal 2009 and, as of June 30, 2009, the Company had an approximate 38% ownership interest in Sky Deutschland.
Impairment of Investments in Sky Deutschland
On October 2, 2008, Sky Deutschland announced guidance on its earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation ("EBITDA") indicating results substantially below prior guidance for calendar year 2008. Sky Deutschland also announced that it had adopted a new classification of subscribers at September 30, 2008. The day after this announcement, Sky Deutschland experienced a significant decline in its market value. As a result of this decline, the Company's carrying value in Sky Deutschland exceeded its market value based upon Sky Deutschland's closing share price of 4.38 on October 3, 2008. The Company believes that this decline was not temporary based on the assessment described below and, accordingly, recorded an impairment charge of $422 million representing the difference between the Company's carrying value and the market value which was included in Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
In determining if the decline in Sky Deutschland's market value was other-than-temporary, the Company considered a number of factors: (1) the financial condition, operating performance and near term prospects of Sky Deutschland; (2) the reason for the decline in Sky Deutschland's fair value; (3) analysts' ratings and estimates of 12 month share price targets for Sky Deutschland; and (4) the length of time and the extent to which Sky Deutschland's market value had been less than the carrying value of the Company's investment.
Other
In August 2008, the Company entered into an agreement providing for the restructuring of the Company's content acquisition agreements with Balaji Telefilms Ltd ("Balaji"). As part of this restructuring agreement, the Company no longer has representation on Balaji's board of directors and does not have significant influence in management decisions; therefore, the Company believes that it no longer has the ability to exercise significant influence over Balaji. Accordingly, the Company accounts for its investment in Balaji under the cost method of accounting and the carrying value is adjusted to market value each reporting period as required under ASC 320 "Investments  Debt and Equity Securities."
 
 
 
In February 2009, the Company, the Permira Newcos and NDS completed the NDS Transaction, resulting in the Permira Newcos and the Company owning approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively. The Company's remaining interest in NDS is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 3Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions for further discussion)
Fiscal 2008 Transactions
In March 2008, the Company and its joint venture partner completed a series of transactions and sold its entire interest in the cable systems in Taiwan, in which the Company maintained a noncontrolling interest ownership, to third parties for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $360 million. The Company recognized pre-tax gains totaling approximately $133 million on the sales included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
Effective September 30, 2007, NGT, Inc. ("NGT") gave the Company control over National Geographic Channel US LLC ("NGC US") in which the Company had a 67% equity interest. Accordingly, the results of NGC US are included in the Company's consolidated results of operations beginning October 1, 2007. During fiscal 2010, the Company offered distributors of an existing Company-owned cable channel the option to transition subscribers to a new NGC US channel. As a result of the contribution of these subscribers to the new channel, the Company increased its ownership percentage in NGC US to approximately 71% as of June 30, 2010. A minority stockholder has the option to call a portion of the Company's increased ownership interest in NGCUS upon the new channel's attainment of certain financial conditions. A minority stockholder has notified the Company of its intention to exercise its call option and will purchase approximately 3% of NGC US.
During fiscal 2008, the Company effectively acquired an additional 27% stake in NGC Network (UK) Limited ("NGC UK") in exchange for a 23% interest in NGC Network International LLC ("NGC International") and a 14% interest in NGC Network Latin America LLC ("NGC Latin America"). As a result of this transaction, the Company owns 52% of NGC International, NGC Latin America and NGC UK. In January 2007, the Company obtained operating control over NGC International and NGC Latin America and has included their results in the Company's consolidated results of operations since January 2007. The Company has included the operating results of NGC UK in the Company's consolidated results beginning in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
In April 2008, the Company sold its interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area for approximately $245 million. The Company recorded a gain of approximately $208 million on the disposal which is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
In May 2008, the Company disposed of its entire interest (approximately 41%) in the common stock of Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. ("Gemstar") in exchange for a cash payment of approximately $637 million and approximately 19 million shares of Macrovision Solutions Corporation ("Macrovision") common stock. The Company sold its shares of Macrovision common stock in June 2008. The Company recorded a net gain of approximately $112 million on the disposals which is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
Impairments of cost method investments
The Company regularly reviews cost method investments for impairments based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related market value, the duration of the market decline, the Company's ability to hold its investment until recovery and the investment's financial strength and specific prospects. In the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company wrote down certain cost method investments by approximately $3 million, $113 million and $125 million, respectively. The write-down in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 included a $58 million impairment related to an investment in a sports and entertainment company and a $38 million impairment related to a television content production company. The write-down in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 included a $114 million impairment related to an investment in an Asian premium movie channel. The above write-downs are reflected in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations and were taken as a result of either the deteriorating financial position of the investee or due to a permanent impairment resulting from sustained losses and limited prospects for recovery.
 
 
 
Summarized financial information
Summarized financial information for a significant equity affiliate, determined in accordance with Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Acts of 1934, as amended, accounted for under the equity method is as follows:
 
NOTE 7. FAIR VALUE
In accordance with ASC 820, fair value measurements are required to be disclosed using a three-tiered fair value hierarchy which distinguishes market participant assumptions into the following categories: (i) inputs that are quoted prices in active markets ("Level 1"); (ii) inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities ("Level 2"); and (iii) inputs that require the entity to use its own assumptions about market participant assumptions ("Level 3"). Additionally, in accordance with ASC 815, the Company has included additional disclosures about the Company's derivatives and hedging activities (Level 2).
The table below presents information about financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis as of June 30, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
The fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest in the Company's RSN was determined by using a discounted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization valuation model, assuming a 9% discount rate.
As the Company is currently exploring the possible disposal of its majorityowned outdoor marketing subsidiary, the Company applied the market approach in valuing its redeemable noncontrolling interest.
The fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest in the Asian general entertainment television joint venture was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis assuming a multiple of ten times terminal year EBITDA.
The changes in fair value of liabilities classified as Level 3 measurements during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 are as follows (in millions):
 
Financial Instruments
The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, receivables, payables and cost investments, approximates fair value.
The aggregate fair value of the Company's borrowing at June 30, 2010 was approximately $15.0 billion compared with a carrying value of approximately $13.3 billion and, at June 30, 2009, was approximately $13.5 billion compared with a carrying value of approximately $14.3 billion. Fair value is generally determined by reference to market values resulting from trading on a national securities exchange or in an over-the-counter market.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts
The Company uses financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges primarily to hedge certain exposures to foreign currency exchange risks associated with the cost for producing or acquiring films and television programming abroad. The notional amount of foreign exchange forward contracts with foreign currency risk outstanding at June 30, 2010 and 2009 was $511 million and $395 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2010 and 2009, the fair values of the foreign exchange forward contracts of approximately $33 million and $3 million, respectively were recorded in the underlying hedged balances. The Company's foreign currency forward contracts are valued using an income approach based on the present value of the forward rate less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount. The potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments for a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $3 million and $33 million, respectively.
The effective changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for June 30, 2010 of $30 million were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income with foreign currency translation adjustments. The ineffective changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges were immaterial. Amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item is recognized in earnings. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the Company reclassified gains and (losses) of approximately $3 million and $(5) million, respectively, from other comprehensive income to net income. Amounts reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 were not material. The Company expects to reclassify approximately $28 million of the gains included in other comprehensive income at June 30, 2010 during fiscal 2011. Cash flows from the settlement of foreign exchange forward contracts (which generally occurs within 12 months from the inception of the contracts) offset cash flows from the underlying hedged item and are included in operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
 
 
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk
Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. The Company has deposits held with banks that exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk.
The Company's receivables did not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at June 30, 2010 or June 30, 2009 due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the Company's products and services are sold.
The Company monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. At June 30, 2010, the Company did not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties.
NOTE 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
Depreciation and amortization related to property, plant and equipment was $994 million, $942 million and $1,009 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This includes depreciation of set-top boxes in the DBS segment of $189 million, $152 million and $142 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Total operating lease expense was approximately $558 million, $563 million and $497 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
NOTE 9. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
The carrying values of the Company's intangible assets and related accumulated amortization were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Intangible assets decreased $619 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to a reduction of $392 million related to the disposition of the financial indexes businesses at the Publishing segment, an impairment of $52 million recorded at the Other segment relating to the Fox Mobile business and amortization expense, which were partially offset by foreign exchange fluctuations.
The changes in the carrying value of goodwill, by segment, are as follows:
 
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, goodwill decreased approximately $633 million, primarily due to disposals resulting in a reduction of $553 million and adjustments of $102 million, which were partially offset by foreign exchange fluctuations of $22 million. The disposals primarily related to the disposition of the financial indexes businesses at the Publishing segment resulting in a reduction of $451 million. Adjustments included impairments of $137 million recorded at the Other segment relating to the News Outdoor and Fox Mobile businesses, partially offset by increases for final purchase price allocations of $25 million and new acquisitions of $10 million. The final purchase price allocations related to the acquisition of a majority interest in an Asian general entertainment company as part of the formation of the Star Jupiter venture and the acquisition of the VeriSign minority share of the Jamba joint venture.
Annual Impairment Review
The Company's goodwill impairment reviews are determined using a two-step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit by primarily using a discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation approach methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, perpetual growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The cash flows employed in the analyses are based on the Company's estimated outlook and various growth rates have been assumed for years beyond the long-term business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units. In assessing the reasonableness of its determined fair values, the Company evaluates its results against other value indicators, such as comparable public company trading values. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment review is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment review is required to be performed to estimate the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
The Company performs impairment reviews consisting of a comparison of the estimated fair value of the Company's FCC licenses with their carrying amount on a station-by-station basis using a discounted cash flow valuation method, assuming a hypothetical start-up scenario for a broadcast station in each of the markets the Company operates in. The significant assumptions used are the discount rate and terminal growth rates and operating margins, as well as industry data on future advertising revenues in the markets where the Company owns television stations. These assumptions are based on actual historical performance in each market and estimates of future performance in each market.
 
 
 
Fiscal 2010
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company completed its annual impairment review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. As part of the annual review process the Company determined that it was more likely than not that its News Outdoor and Fox Mobile businesses, which are considered reporting units under ASC 350, will be sold or otherwise disposed. In connection with such disposal, the Company reviewed these businesses for impairment and recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $200 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The impairment charge consisted of a write-down of finite-lived intangible assets of $52 million, a write-down of $137 million in goodwill and a write-down of fixed assets of $11 million. In accordance with ASC 360, the assets and liabilities of both News Outdoor and Fox Mobile were carried at their fair value, measured using the market value approach, as of June 30, 2010. The net income, assets, liabilities and cash flow attributable to the News Outdoor and Fox Mobile operations are not material to the Company in any of the periods presented and, accordingly, have not been presented separately.
Other than the impairment noted above, the Company determined that the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets included in the consolidated balance sheets were not impaired.
Fiscal 2009
During fiscal 2009, the Company performed an interim impairment review in advance of its annual impairment assessment because the Company believed events had occurred and circumstances had changed that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets below their carrying amounts. These events included: (a) the decline of the price of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock below the carrying value of the Company's stockholders' equity; (b) the reduced growth in advertising revenues; (c) the decline in the operating profit margins in some of the Company's advertising-based businesses; and (d) the decline in the valuations of other television stations, newspapers and advertising-based companies as determined by the current trading values of those companies. In addition, the Company performed an annual impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
As a result of the impairment reviews performed the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately $8.9 billion ($7.2 billion, net of tax) during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The charges consisted of a write-down of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily FCC licenses in the Television segment) of $4.6 billion, a write-down of $4.1 billion of goodwill and a write-down of the Publishing segment's fixed assets of $185 million in accordance with ASC 360.
Amortization related to finite-lived intangible assets was $191 million, $196 million and $198 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Based on the current amount of intangible assets subject to amortization, the estimated amortization expense for each of the succeeding five fiscal years is as follows: 2011 - $140 million; 2012 - $126 million; 2013 - $114 million; 2014 - $107 million; and 2015 - $101 million. These amounts may vary as acquisitions and disposals occur in the future and as purchase price allocations are finalized.
 
 
 
NOTE 10. BORROWINGS
 
 
The Company's $250 million of 6.75% Senior Debentures due January 2038 were puttable at the option of the holder to the Company in January 2010. The majority of these debentures were not put to the Company in January 2010 and the outstanding debentures which had been classified as current borrowings as of June 30, 2009 were classified as non-current borrowings as of June 30, 2010.
In March 2010, the Company retired its $150 million 4.75% Senior Debentures due 2010.
 
 
In February 2009, the Company issued $700 million of 6.90% Senior Notes due 2019 and $300 million of 7.85% Senior Notes due 2039 for general corporate purposes. The Company received proceeds of approximately $993 million on the issuance of this debt, net of expense.
 
On February 28, 2006, 92% of the LYONs were redeemed for cash at the specified redemption amount of $594.25 per LYON. Accordingly, the Company paid an aggregate of approximately $831 million to the holders of the LYONs that had exercised this redemption option.
The remaining LYONs have been classified as current borrowings as of June 30, 2010 due to the holders' option to redeem the LYONs on February 28, 2011.
The LYONs constitute senior indebtedness of NAI and rank equal in right of payment with all present and future senior indebtedness of NAI. News Corporation has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the LYONs. The LYONs, which have been recorded at a discount, are being accreted using the effective interest rate method.
 
Ratings of Public Debt
The table below summarizes the Company's credit ratings as of June 30, 2010.
 
Original Currencies of Borrowings
Borrowings are payable in the following currencies:
 
The impact of foreign currency movements on borrowings during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 was approximately $9 million.
In May 2007, NAI entered into a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), among NAI as Borrower, the Company as Parent Guarantor, the lenders named therein (the "Lenders"), Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent. The Credit Agreement provides a $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a sub-limit of $600 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings are in U.S. dollars only, while letters of credit are issuable in U.S. dollars or Euros. The significant terms of the agreement include the requirement that the Company maintain specific leverage ratios and limitations on secured indebtedness. The Company pays a facility fee of 0.08% regardless of facility usage. The Company pays interest for borrowings at LIBOR plus 0.27% and pays commission fees on letters of credit at 0.27%. The Company pays an additional fee of 0.05% if borrowings under the facility exceed 50% of the committed facility. The interest and fees are based on the Company's current debt rating. The maturity date is in May 2012, however, NAI may request a $250 million increase in the amount of the credit facility and may also request that the Lenders' commitments be extended until May 2013. At June 30, 2010, approximately $71 million in standby letters of credit for the benefit of third parties were outstanding.
 
 
 
NOTE 11. EXCHANGEABLE SECURITIES
TOPrS
In November 1996, the Company, through a trust (the "Exchange Trust") wholly-owned by NAI, issued 10 million 5% TOPrS for aggregate gross proceeds of $1 billion. Such proceeds were invested in (i) preferred securities representing a beneficial interest of NAI's 5% Subordinated Discount Debentures due November 12, 2016 (the "Subordinated Debentures") and (ii) 10,000,000 warrants to purchase from NAI ordinary shares of BSkyB (the "Warrants"). During fiscal 2003, approximately 85% of the Company's outstanding TOPrS and related warrants were redeemed and, in fiscal 2010, the balance of the TOPrS was redeemed for $134 million.
The total net proceeds from the issuance of the TOPrS were allocated between the fair value of the obligation and the fair value of the Warrants on their date of issuance. The fair value of the Warrants was determined at the end of each period using the Black-Scholes method. The original fair value of the obligation was recorded in non-current borrowings and in accordance with ASC 815, the Warrants were reported at fair value and in non-current other liabilities. As a result of the Company's redemption of the outstanding TOPrS and related warrants during fiscal 2010, there were no TOPrS included in borrowings or non-current liabilities at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2009, $129 million and $4 million of the TOPrS were included in borrowings and non-current liabilities, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets.
BUCS
During fiscal 2003, News Corporation Finance Trust II (the "Trust") issued an aggregate of $1.65 billion 0.75% BUCS representing interests in debentures issued by NAI and guaranteed on a senior basis by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. The net proceeds from the BUCS issuance were used to purchase approximately 85% of the Company's outstanding TOPrS. The BUCS were exchangeable at the holders' option into BSkyB ordinary shares based on an exchange ratio of 77.09 BSkyB ordinary shares per $1,000 original liquidation amount of BUCS. The Trust was able to pay the exchange market value of each BUCS by delivering ordinary shares of BSkyB or a combination of cash and ordinary shares of BSkyB. In fiscal 2010, the Company redeemed all the outstanding BUCS for an aggregate of approximately $1.65 billion in cash.
The total net proceeds from the issuance of the BUCS were allocated between the fair value of the obligation and the fair value of the exchange feature. The fair values of the obligation and the exchange feature were determined by pricing the issuance with and without the exchange feature. The original fair value of the obligation was recorded in non-current borrowings and in accordance with ASC 815, the call option feature of the exchangeable debentures was reported at fair value and in non-current other liabilities. As a result of the Company's redemption of the outstanding BUCS during fiscal 2010, there were no BUCS included in borrowings or non-current liabilities at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2009, $1,608 million of the 0.75% BUCS was classified as borrowings on the consolidated balance sheets and no value was ascribed to the exchange feature.
NOTE 12. FILM PRODUCTION FINANCING
The Company enters into arrangements with third parties to co-produce certain of its theatrical productions. These arrangements, which are referred to as co-financing arrangements, take various forms. The parties to these arrangements include studio and non-studio entities. In several of these agreements, other parties control certain distribution rights. The Filmed Entertainment segment records the amounts received for the sale of an economic interest as a reduction of the cost of the film, as the investor assumes full risk for that portion of the film asset acquired in these transactions. The substance of these arrangements is that the third-party investors own an interest in the film and, therefore, receive a participation based on the third-party investor's contractual interest in the profits or losses incurred on the film. Consistent with the requirements of ASC 926-605 the estimate of the third-party investor's interest in profits or losses incurred on the film is determined by reference to the ratio of actual revenue earned to date in relation to total estimated ultimate revenues.
 
 
 
NOTE 13. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Preferred Stock and Common Stock
Under the News Corporation Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock or common stock at any time, without stockholder approval, and to determine all the terms of those shares, including the following:
(i) the voting rights, if any, except that the issuance of preferred stock or series common stock which entitles holders thereof to more than one vote per share requires the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of the Company's capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors;
(ii) the dividend rate and preferences, if any, which that preferred stock or common stock will have compared to any other class; and
(iii) the redemption and liquidation rights and preferences, if any, which that preferred stock or common stock will have compared to any other class.
Any decision by the Board to issue preferred stock or common stock must, however, be taken in accordance with the Board's fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the Company's stockholders. The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. As of June 30, 2010, there were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. The Board has the authority, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the number of shares, designations, relative rights (including voting rights), preferences, qualifications and limitations of such series to the full extent permitted by Delaware law.
The Company has two classes of common stock that are authorized and outstanding, non-voting Class A Common Stock and voting Class B Common Stock.
As of June 30, 2010, there were approximately 47,000 holders of record of shares of Class A Common Stock and 1,300 holders of record of Class B Common Stock.
In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or a portion thereof, holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive all of the remaining assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, ratably in proportion to the number of shares held by Class A Common Stock holders and Class B Common Stock holders, respectively. In the event of any merger or consolidation with or into another entity, the holders of Class A Common Stock and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive substantially identical per share consideration.
Stock Repurchase Program
The Board had authorized a total stock repurchase program to $6 billion. The remaining authorized amount under the Company's stock repurchase program was approximately $1,761 million, excluding commissions at June 30, 2010. The Company did not repurchase any shares during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, the Company repurchased approximately 20 million shares.
The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Dividends
 
NOTE 14. EQUITY BASED COMPENSATION
News Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company has adopted the News Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan") under which equity based compensation, including stock options, restricted stock, RSUs and other types of awards, may be granted. Such equity grants under the 2005 Plan generally vest over a four-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. The Company's employees and directors are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") determines the recipients, type of award to be granted and amounts of awards to be granted under the 2005 Plan. Stock options awarded under the 2005 Plan will be granted at exercise prices which are equal to or exceed the market price at the date of grant. The 2005 Plan replaced the News Corporation 2004 Stock Option Plan under which no additional stock options will be granted. The maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock that may be issued under the 2005 Plan is 165 million shares. At June 30, 2010, the remaining number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan was approximately 130 million. The Company will issue new shares of Class A Common Stock for award upon exercises of stock options or vesting of stock-settled RSUs.
 
 
 
The fair value of equity-based compensation under the 2005 Plan will be calculated according to the type of award issued.
Stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs") issued under the 2005 Plan will be fair valued using a Black-Scholes option valuation method that uses the following assumptions: expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the shares underlying the option; expected term of awards granted is derived from the historical activity of the Company's awards and represents the period of time that the awards granted are expected to be outstanding; weighted average risk-free interest rate is an average of the interest rates of U.S. government bonds with similar lives on the dates of the stock option grants; and dividend yield is calculated as an average of a ten year history of the Company's yearly dividend divided by the fiscal year's closing stock price.
RSU awards are grants that entitle the holder to shares of Class A Common Stock or the value of shares of Class A Common Stock as the award vests, subject to the 2005 Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Compensation Committee may establish. RSUs issued under the 2005 Plan are fair valued based upon the fair market value of Class A Common Stock on the grant date. Any person who holds RSUs shall have no ownership interest in the shares of Class A Common Stock to which such RSUs relate until and unless shares of Class A Common Stock are delivered to the holder. All shares of Class A Common Stock reserved for cancelled or forfeited equity-based compensation awards or for awards that are settled in cash become available for future grants. Certain RSU awards are settled in cash and are subject to terms and conditions of the 2005 Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Compensation Committee may establish.
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company issued 6.0 million, 12.0 million and 7.5 million RSUs, respectively, which primarily vest over four years. Outstanding RSUs as of June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are payable in shares of the Class A Common Stock, upon vesting, except for approximately 2 million RSUs outstanding that will be settled in cash. RSUs granted to executive directors are settled in cash and certain awards granted to employees in certain foreign locations are settled in cash. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 2,352,000, 1,781,000 and 767,000 cash-settled RSUs vested, respectively. Cash paid for vested cash-settled RSUs was approximately $24 million in both of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 and $25 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. At June 30, 2010 and 2009, the liability for cash-settled RSUs was approximately $25 million and $52 million, respectively.
Certain executives, who are not named executive officers of the Company, responsible for various business units within the Company had the opportunity to earn a grant of RSUs under the 2005 Plan in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008. These awards (the "Performance Awards") were conditioned upon the attainment of pre-determined operating profit goals for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 by the executive's particular business unit. If the actual fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 operating profit of the executive's business unit as compared to its pre-determined target operating profit for the fiscal year was within a certain performance goal range, the executive was entitled to receive a grant of RSUs pursuant to a Performance Award. To the extent that it was determined that the business unit's actual fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 operating profit fell within the performance goal range for that fiscal year, the executive received a percentage of his or her annualized base salary, ranging from 0% to 100%, in time-vested RSUs representing shares of Class A Common Stock. The RSUs are generally payable in shares of Class A Common Stock upon vesting and are subject to the participants' continued employment with the Company.
The following table summarizes the activity related to the Company's RSUs to be settled in stock:
 
 
 
 
 
In fiscal 2011, approximately 11.3 million RSUs were issued in connection with the fiscal 2010 performance targets, twenty-five percent of which will vest as of August 15, 2010. The remaining balance will vest in three equal annual installments, subject to the individual's continued employment with the Company.
News Corporation 2004 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Replacement Stock Option Plan
As a result of the Company's reorganization in November 2004, all preferred limited voting ordinary shares which the Company issued stock options over were cancelled and holders received in exchange stock options for shares of Class A Common Stock on a one-for-two basis with no change in the original terms under the News Corporation 2004 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Replacement Stock Option Plan (collectively, the "2004 Plan"). In addition, all other outstanding stock options to purchase preferred limited voting ordinary shares were adjusted to be exercisable into shares of Class A Common Stock subject to the one-for-two share exchange. Prior to the Company's reorganization in November 2004, stock options were granted to employees with Australian dollar exercise prices.
Under the 2004 Plan, equity grants generally vest over a four-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. The equity awards were granted with exercise prices that are equal to or exceed the market price at the date of grant and were valued, in Australian dollars. The 2004 Plan automatically terminates in 2014.
Other
The Company operates employee share ownership schemes in the United Kingdom and Ireland. These plans enable employees to enter into fixed-term savings contracts with independent financial institutions linked to an option for Class A Common Stock. The savings contracts can range from three to seven years with an average expected life of four years. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, the Company granted approximately 1,103,000 and 493,000 stock options under this scheme, respectively. The Company did not grant any stock options under this scheme in fiscal 2010.
The following table summarizes information about the Company's stock option transactions for all the Company's stock option plans (options in thousands):
 
 
 
 
 
The Company did not grant any stock options in fiscal 2010. The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions used for grants in fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008:
 
The fair value of each outstanding stock option award under the 2004 Plan was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the following assumptions: expected volatility was based on historical volatility of the Class A Common Stock; expected term of stock options granted was derived from the historical activity of the Company's stock options and represented the period of time that stock options granted were expected to be outstanding; weighted average risk-free interest rate was an average of the interest rates of U.S. government bonds with similar lives on the dates of the stock option grants; and dividend yield was calculated as an average of a ten year history of the Company's yearly dividend divided by the fiscal year's closing stock price.
The exercise prices for the stock options issued prior to the Company's reorganization in November 2004 are in Australian dollars. The U.S. dollar equivalents presented above have been converted at historical exchange rates; therefore, the proceeds from the exercise of these stock options may differ due to fluctuations in exchange rates in periods subsequent to the date of the grant.
At June 30, 2010, 1,937,000 of the SARs were vested and exercisable. No SARs have been issued since fiscal 2005.
The following table summarizes information about the Company's stock option transactions (options in thousands):
 
The following table summarizes the Company's equity-based compensation:
 
At June 30, 2010, the Company's total compensation cost related to non-vested stock options and RSUs not yet recognized for all plans presented was approximately $180 million, the majority of which is expected to be recognized over the next two fiscal years. Compensation expense on all equity-based awards is recognized on a straight line basis over the vesting period of the entire award.
The Company recognized a tax (expense) benefit on vested RSUs and stock options exercised of $(10) million, $(7) million and $17 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
 
 
NDS Option Schemes
In February 2009, the Company, the Permira Newcos and NDS completed the NDS Transaction, resulting in the Permira Newcos and the Company owning approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively. As a result of the completion of the NDS Transaction, NDS ceased to be a public company and the Company's remaining interest in NDS is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 3  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions) Prior to the completion of the NDS Transaction, NDS had three executive share option schemes ("the NDS Plans"). The NDS Plans provided for the grant of options to purchase Series A ordinary shares in NDS and RSU awards that entitled the holder to NDS Series A ordinary shares as the awards vested. In connection with the NDS Transaction, all nonvested equity awards vested and the NDS Plans were terminated.
The Company included approximately $44 million and $17 million of equity-based compensation expense related to NDS awards in its consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company also recognized approximately $70 million and $9 million in cash received from exercise of equity-based compensation during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 the fair value of NDS stock options exercised was $73 million and $16 million, respectively.
NOTE 15. RELATED PARTIES
Director transactions
The Company had engaged, prior to May 2010, Mrs. Wendi Murdoch, the wife of Mr. K.R. Murdoch, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to provide strategic advice for the development of the MySpace business in China. The fees paid to Mrs. Murdoch pursuant to this arrangement were $92,000 in fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 and $100,000 in both the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008. Mrs. Murdoch is a Director of MySpace China Holdings Limited ("MySpace China"), a joint venture in which the Company owns a 51.5% interest on a fully diluted basis, which licenses the technology and brand to the local company in China that operates the MySpace China website. Similar to other Directors of MySpace China, Mrs. Murdoch received options over 2.5% of the fully diluted shares of MySpace China that will vest over four years under the MySpace China option plan.
Freud Communications, which is controlled by Matthew Freud, Mr. K.R. Murdoch's son-in-law, provided external support to the press and publicity activities of the Company during fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008. The fees paid by the Company to Freud Communications were approximately $350,000, $473,000 and $669,000 in fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At June 30, 2010, there were no outstanding amounts due to or from Freud Communications.
The Shine Group ("Shine"), a television production and distribution company, is controlled by Ms. Elisabeth Murdoch, the daughter of Mr. K.R. Murdoch. Through the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of the Company have entered into various production and distribution arrangements with Shine. Pursuant to these arrangements, the Company paid Shine an aggregate of approximately $11.9 million and $453,000 in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2008, respectively. No amounts were paid to Shine in fiscal year 2009. At June 30, 2010, there were no outstanding amounts due to or from Shine.
Mr. Mark Hurd, a Director of the Company, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). Through the normal course of business, HP sells certain equipment and provides services to the Company and its subsidiaries pursuant to a worldwide agreement entered into by the Company and HP in August 2007. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company paid HP approximately $55 million, $47 million and $68 million in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Dr. Roderick R. Paige was a Director of the Company until February 2008 and as a result ceased to be a related party. Upon his resignation from the Board, the Company and Dr. Paige entered into a consultancy arrangement pursuant to which Dr. Paige advised the Company on certain educational matters. The consultancy arrangement was terminated in March 2009. The fees paid by the Company to Dr. Paige pursuant to this arrangement were $240,000 per annum and Dr. Paige received $90,668 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 prior to his resignation from the Board.
Mr. Stanley Shuman, Director Emeritus, and Mr. Kenneth Siskind, son of Mr. Arthur M. Siskind, who is a Director and senior advisor to the Chairman, are Managing Directors of Allen & Company LLC, a U.S. based investment bank, which provided investment advisory services to the Company. No amounts were paid to Allen & Company LLC in the fiscal year 2010. Total fees paid to Allen & Company LLC were $17.5 million and $7.5 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
 
 
In April 2010, the Company acquired an approximate 23% equity stake in Beyond Oblivion, a digital music start-up company, for approximately $9.2 million. Mr. Shuman has an approximate 18% interest in Beyond Oblivion and serves as a member of its board of directors. Mr. Shuman does not receive compensation for his Beyond Oblivion board service.
Other related entities
In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into transactions with related parties, such as equity affiliates, to purchase and/or sell advertising, the sale of programming, administrative services and supplying digital technology and services for digital pay television platforms. The following table sets forth the net revenue from related parties included in the consolidated statements of operations:
 
The following table sets forth the amount of accounts receivable due from and payable to related parties outstanding on the consolidated balance sheets:
 
Rotana
During fiscal 2010, the Company acquired an approximate 9% interest in Rotana, which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the Middle East and North Africa, for $70 million. A significant shareholder of the Company, who owns approximately 7% of the Company's Class B Common stock, owns a controlling interest in Rotana. The Company has an option to purchase an approximate additional 9% interest for $70 million through November 2011. The Company also has an option to sell its interests in Rotana in February 2015 at the higher of the price per share based on a bona fide sale offer or the original subscription price.
Liberty Transaction
In February 2008, the Company completed the Exchange with Liberty. Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, Liberty exchanged its entire interest in the Company's common stock for 100% of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, whose holdings consisted of the Company's approximate 41% interest in DIRECTV, the Three RSNs and $625 million in cash. As a result of the closing of the Exchange, Liberty ceased to be a related party in February 2008. (See Note 3  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions for further discussion of the Share Exchange Agreement)
 
 
 
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements ("firm commitments") to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. The following table summarizes the Company's material firm commitments as of June 30, 2010.
 
The Company also has certain contractual arrangements in relation to certain investees that would require the Company to make payments or provide funding if certain circumstances occur ("contingent guarantees"). The Company does not expect that these contingent guarantees will result in any material amounts being paid by the Company in the foreseeable future. The timing of the amounts presented in the table below reflect when the maximum contingent guarantees will expire and does not indicate that the Company expects to incur an obligation to make payments during that time frame.
 
 
 
Under the Company's contract with NFL, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain football games are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2014.
The Company's contracts with NASCAR give the Company rights to broadcast certain races and ancillary content through calendar year 2014.
Under the Company's contract with the Big Ten Conference, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain Big Ten Conference sporting events are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2032.
Under the Company's contract with Italy's National League Football, remaining future minimum payments for programming rights to broadcast National League Football matches are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2012.
 
 
 
In addition, the Company has certain other local sports broadcasting rights.
 
 
 
In accordance with ASC 715, the total accrued benefit liability for pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized as of June 30, 2010 was approximately $892 million (See Note 17 - Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits). This amount is effected by, among other items, statutory funding levels, changes in plan demographics and assumptions, and investment returns on plan assets. Because of the current overall funded status of the Company's material plans, the accrued liability does not represent expected near-term liquidity needs and, accordingly, this amount is not included in the contractual obligations table.
Contingencies
Intermix
On August 26, 2005 and August 30, 2005, two purported class action lawsuits captioned, respectively, Ron Sheppard v. Richard Rosenblatt et. al., and John Friedmann v. Intermix Media, Inc. et al., were filed in the California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles. Both lawsuits named as defendants all of the then incumbent members of the Board of Directors of Intermix Media, Inc. ("Intermix"), including Mr. Rosenblatt, Intermix's former Chief Executive Officer, and certain entities affiliated with VantagePoint Venture Partners ("VantagePoint"), a former major Intermix stockholder. The complaints alleged that, in pursuing the transaction whereby Intermix was to be acquired by Fox Interactive Media, a subsidiary of the Company (the "FIM Transaction") and approving the related merger agreement, the director defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Intermix stockholders by, among other things, engaging in self-dealing and failing to obtain the highest price reasonably available for Intermix and its stockholders. The complaints further alleged that the merger agreement resulted from a flawed process and that the defendants tailored the terms of the merger to advance their own interests. The FIM Transaction was consummated on September 30, 2005. The Friedmann and Sheppard lawsuits were subsequently consolidated and, on January 17, 2006, a consolidated amended complaint was filed (the "Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation"). The plaintiffs in the consolidated action sought various forms of declaratory relief, damages, disgorgement and fees and costs. On March 20, 2006, the court ordered that substantially identical claims asserted in a separate state action filed by Brad Greenspan, captioned Greenspan v. Intermix Media, Inc., et al., be severed and related to the Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation. The defendants filed demurrers seeking dismissal of all claims in the Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation and the severed Greenspan claims. On October 6, 2006, the court sustained the demurrers without leave to amend. On December 13, 2006, the court dismissed the complaints and entered judgment for the defendants. Greenspan and plaintiffs in the Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation filed notices of appeal. The Court of Appeal heard arguments on the fully briefed appeal on October 23, 2008. On November 11, 2008, the Court of Appeal issued an unpublished opinion affirming the lower court's dismissal on all counts. On December 19, 2008, stockholder appellants filed a Petition for Review with the California Supreme Court. The California Supreme Court denied review on February 18, 2009 and the judgment is now final.
In November 2005, plaintiff in a derivative action captioned LeBoyer v. Greenspan et al. pending against various former Intermix directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Central District of California filed a First Amended Class and Derivative Complaint (the "Amended Complaint"). The original derivative action was filed in May 2003 and arose out of Intermix's restatement of quarterly financial results for its fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. A substantially similar derivative action filed in Los Angeles Superior Court was dismissed based on the inability of the plaintiffs to plead adequately demand futility. Plaintiff LeBoyer's November 2005 Amended Complaint added various allegations and purported class claims arising out of the FIM Transaction that are substantially similar to those asserted in the Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation. The Amended Complaint also added as defendants the individuals and entities named in the Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation that were not already defendants in the matter. On October 16, 2006, the court dismissed the fourth through seventh claims for relief, which related to the 2003 restatement, finding that the plaintiff is precluded from relitigating demand futility. At the same time, the court asked for further briefing regarding plaintiffs' standing to assert derivative claims based on the FIM Transaction, including for alleged violation of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, the effect of the state judge's dismissal of the claims in the Greenspan case and the Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation on the remaining direct class action claims alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and other common law claims leading up to
 
 
the FIM Transaction. The parties filed the requested additional briefing in which the defendants requested that the court stay the direct LeBoyer claims pending the resolution of any appeal in the Greenspan case and the Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation. By order dated May 22, 2007, the court granted defendants' motion to dismiss the derivative claims arising out of the FIM Transaction, and denied the defendants' request to stay the two remaining direct claims. As explained in more detail in the next paragraph, the court subsequently consolidated this case with the Brown v. Brewer action also pending before the court. On July 11, 2007, plaintiffs filed the consolidated first amended complaint under the Brown case title. See the discussion of the Brown case below for the subsequent developments in the consolidated case.
On June 14, 2006, a purported class action lawsuit, captioned Jim Brown v. Brett C. Brewer, et al., was filed against certain former Intermix directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The plaintiff asserted claims for alleged violations of Section 14a of the Exchange Act and SEC Rule 14a-9, as well as control person liability under Section 20a of the Exchange Act. The plaintiff alleged that certain defendants disseminated false and misleading definitive proxy statements on two occasions: one on December 30, 2003 in connection with the stockholder vote on January 29, 2004 on the election of directors and ratification of financing transactions with certain entities of VantagePoint; and another on August 25, 2005 in connection with the stockholder vote on the FIM Transaction. The complaint named as defendants certain VantagePoint related entities, the former general counsel and the members of the Intermix Board who were incumbent on the dates of the respective proxy statements. Intermix was not named as a defendant, but has certain indemnity obligations to the former officer and director defendants in connection with these claims and allegations. On August 25, 2006, plaintiff amended his complaint to add certain investment banks (the "Investment Banks") as defendants. Intermix has certain indemnity obligations to the Investment Banks as well. Plaintiff amended his complaint again on September 27, 2006, which defendants moved to dismiss. On February 9, 2007, the case was transferred to Judge George H. King, the judge assigned to the LeBoyer action, on the grounds that it raises substantially related questions of law and fact as LeBoyer, and would entail substantial duplication of labor if heard by different judges. On June 11, 2007, Judge King ordered the Brown case be consolidated with the LeBoyer action, ordered plaintiffs' counsel to file a consolidated first amended complaint, and further ordered the parties to file a joint brief on defendants' contemplated motion to dismiss the consolidated first amended complaint. On July 11, 2007, plaintiffs filed the consolidated first amended complaint, which defendants moved to dismiss. By order dated January 17, 2008, Judge King granted defendants' motion to dismiss the 2003 proxy claims (concerning VantagePoint transactions) and the 2005 proxy claims (concerning the FIM Transaction), as well as a claim against the VantagePoint entities alleging unjust enrichment. The court found it unnecessary to rule on dismissal of the remaining claims, which are related to the 2005 FIM Transaction, because the dismissal disposed of those claims. On February 8, 2008, plaintiffs filed a consolidated second amended complaint, which defendants moved to dismiss on February 28, 2008. By order dated July 15, 2008, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants' motion to dismiss. The 2003 claims and the claims against the Investment Banks were dismissed with prejudice. The Section 14a, Section 20a and the breach of fiduciary duty claims related to the FIM Transaction remain against the officer and director defendants and the VantagePoint defendants. On November 14, 2008, plaintiff filed a motion for class certification to which defendants filed their opposition on January 14, 2009. On June 22, 2009, the court granted plaintiff's motion for class certification, certifying a class of all holders of Intermix common stock from July 18, 2005 through consummation of the FIM Transaction, who were allegedly harmed by defendants' improper conduct as set forth in the complaint. The parties have completed fact and expert discovery. On June 17, 2010, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants' summary judgment motion filed on October 19, 2009. Specifically, the court denied plaintiff's motion for summary adjudication of a factual issue and denied defendants' motion to exclude plaintiff's damages expert, which was filed on November 30, 2009. In the court's June 17 order, the court found that plaintiff could not proceed on any fiduciary duty claim based upon alleged violations of the duty of care, but found material issues of fact prohibiting summary judgment on alleged violations of fiduciary duty of loyalty. On plaintiff's Section 14a claim, the court found material issues of fact that prohibited summary judgment on the entire claim, but granted defendants' motion as to certain purported omissions, finding the allegedly omitted information immaterial. Further, the court granted defendants' motion as to two damage theories for the Section 14a claim, finding benefit of the bargain damages not viable and lost opportunity damages too speculative, and permitting plaintiff to proceed only based upon a theory of out-of-pocket damages. No trial date has been set yet. (See Note 24Subsequent Events)
News America Marketing
On January 18, 2006, Valassis Communication, Inc. ("Valassis") sued News America Incorporated, News America Marketing FSI, LLC and News America Marketing Services, In-Store, LLC, each of which are subsidiaries of the Company (collectively "News America"), in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan (the "Valassis Federal Action"). Valassis' operative complaint alleged that News America possesses monopoly power in a claimed in-store advertising and promotions market (the "in-store market") and has used that power to gain an unfair advantage over Valassis in a purported market for coupons distributed by free-standing inserts ("FSIs"). Valassis alleged that News America is attempting to monopolize the purported FSI market by leveraging its alleged monopoly power in the purported in-store market, thereby allegedly violating Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, as amended (the "Sherman Act"). Valassis further alleged that News America has unlawfully bundled the sale of in-store marketing products with the sale of FSIs and that such bundling constitutes unlawful tying in violation of Sections 1 and 3 of the Sherman Act. Additionally, Valassis alleged that News America is predatorily pricing its FSI products in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act. Valassis also asserted that News America violated various state antitrust statutes and has tortuously interfered with Valassis' actual or expected business relationships. Valassis' complaint sought injunctive relief, damages, fees and costs.
 
 
 
On March 9, 2007, Valassis filed a two-count complaint in Michigan state court against News America (the "Valassis Michigan Action"). That lawsuit, which was based on the same factual allegations as the Valassis Federal Action, alleged that News America tortuously interfered with Valassis' business relationships and that News America unfairly competed with Valassis. The complaint sought injunctive relief, damages, fees and costs.
On March 12, 2007, Valassis filed a three-count complaint in California state court against News America (the "Valassis California Action"). That lawsuit, which is based on the same factual allegations as the Valassis Federal and Michigan Actions, alleged that News America violated the Cartwright Act (California's state antitrust law) by unlawfully tying its FSI products to its in-store products, violated California's Unfair Practices Act by predatorily pricing its FSI products, and unfairly competed with Valassis. The Valassis California Action sought injunctive relief, damages, fees and costs. On May 4, 2007, News America filed a motion to dismiss or, in the alternative stay, that complaint. On June 28, 2007, the court issued a tentative ruling denying the motion and reassigned the case to the Complex Litigation Program. On July 19, 2007, the court denied the motion. The Valassis California Action was stayed until March 2010.
Trial in the Valassis Michigan Action commenced on May 27, 2009. On July 23, 2009, a jury returned a verdict in the amount of $300 million for Valassis. News America filed a motion for new trial, which was denied. News America filed an appeal and posted a bond for $25 million, the maximum bond required under Michigan law.
Trial in the Valassis Federal Action was set to commence on February 2, 2010. As a result of pretrial proceedings and negotiations that occurred in late January 2010 related to the Valassis Federal Action, on January 30, 2010, the Company announced that News America had reached a settlement agreement with Valassis pursuant to which all claims filed by Valassis in all matters have been dismissed with prejudice. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan oversaw the settlement discussions and approved the terms of the settlement. As part of the settlement, News America paid Valassis $500 million and entered into a ten-year shared mail distribution agreement with Valassis Direct Mail, a Valassis subsidiary. Additionally, the parties also have agreed to a process by which the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan may assess certain future business practices of News America and Valassis. In connection with the settlement, the Valassis Federal Action has been dismissed with prejudice. In addition, the judgment in the Valassis Michigan Action from July 2009 has been satisfied with all related appeals dismissed, and the Valassis California Action has been dismissed with prejudice.
As a result of the settlement, the Company recorded a charge of $500 million in fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The cost of the new distribution agreement, which was entered into on a fair value basis, will be accounted for prospectively, consistent with the accounting for other similar agreements.
Other
Other than previously disclosed in the notes to these consolidated financial statements, the Company is party to several purchase and sale arrangements which become exercisable over the next ten years by the Company or the counter-party to the agreement. In the next twelve months, none of these arrangements that become exercisable are material. Purchase arrangements that are exercisable by the counter-party to the agreement, and that are outside the sole control of the Company are accounted for in accordance with ASC 480-10-S99-3A. Accordingly, the fair values of such purchase arrangements are classified in Redeemable noncontrolling interests.
The Company experiences routine litigation in the normal course of its business. The Company believes that none of its pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
The Company's operations are subject to tax in various domestic and international jurisdictions and as a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of all pending tax matters and does not currently anticipate that the ultimate resolution of pending tax matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
NOTE 17. PENSIONS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Company participates in and/or sponsors pension and savings plans of various types in a variety of jurisdictions covering, in aggregate, substantially all employees. As of January 1, 2008, the major pension plans and medical plans are closed to new participants (with the exception of groups covered by collective bargaining agreements). The Company has a legally enforceable obligation to contribute to some plans and is not required to contribute to others. Non-U.S. plans include both employee contributory
 
 
and employee non-contributory defined benefit plans and accumulation plans covering all eligible employees. The plans in the United States include both defined benefit pension plans and employee non-contributory and employee contributory accumulation plans covering all eligible employees. The Company makes contributions in accordance with applicable laws or contract terms in each jurisdiction in which the Company operates. The Company's benefit obligation is calculated using several assumptions which the Company reviews on a regular basis.
The funded status of the plans can change from year to year but the assets of the funded plans has been sufficient to pay all benefits that came due in each of fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.
The Company uses a June 30 measurement date for all pension and postretirement benefit plans. The following table sets forth the change in the benefit obligation for the Company's benefit plans:
 
 
Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of:
 
 
 
 
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income consist of:
 
Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in fiscal 2011:
 
Accumulated pension benefit obligations at June 30, 2010 and 2009 were $2,706 million and $2,298 million, respectively. Below is information about funded and unfunded pension plans.
 
 
Below is information about pension plans in which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds fair value of the plan assets.
 
 
 
 
The components of net periodic costs were as follows:
 
 
The following assumed health care cost trend rates at June 30 were also used in accounting for postretirement benefits:
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement health care plan. The effect of a one percentage point increase and one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects on the results for fiscal 2010:
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the estimated benefit payments for the next five fiscal years, and in aggregate for the five fiscal years thereafter. The expected benefits are estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company's benefit obligation at the end of the fiscal year and include benefits attributable to estimated future employee service:
 
The above table shows expected benefits payments for the postretirement benefits after adjusting for U.S. Medicare subsidy receipts. The annual receipts are expected to range from $1 to $2 million.
Plan Assets
In June 2010, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC 715 which expanded the disclosure requirements of defined benefit plans. The expanded disclosure requirements include: (i) investment policies and strategies; (ii) the major categories of plan assets; (iii) the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure plan assets; (iv) the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs on changes in plan assets for the period; and (v) significant concentrations of risk within plan assets.
The table below presents the Company's plan assets by level within the fair value hierarchy as of June 30, 2010:
 
 
 
 
The table below sets forth a summary of changes in the fair value of investments reflected as Level 3 assets at June 30, 2010:
 
The Company's investment strategy for its pension plans is to maximize the long-term rate of return on plan assets within an acceptable level of risk in order to minimize the cost of providing pension benefits while maintaining adequate funding levels. The Company's practice is to conduct a periodic strategic review of its asset allocation. The Company's current broad strategic targets are to have a pension asset portfolio comprising of 52% equity securities, 37% fixed income securities, 1% in real estate and 10% in cash and other investments. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, the Company considered the pension asset portfolio's past average rate of returns and future return expectations of the various asset classes. A portion of the other allocation is reserved in short-term cash to provide for expected benefits to be paid in short term. The Company's equity portfolios are managed in such a way as to achieve optimal diversity. The Company's fixed income portfolio is investment grade in the aggregate. The Company does not manage any assets internally.
The Company's benefit plan weighted-average asset allocations, by asset category, are as follows:
 
The Company contributes to multi-employer plans that provide pension and health and welfare benefits to certain employees under collective bargaining agreements. The contributions to these plans were $110 million, $120 million and $116 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, the Company has defined contribution plans for the benefit of substantially all employees meeting certain eligibility requirements. Employer contributions to such plans were $194 million, $199 million and $186 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The Company expects to continue making discretionary contributions to the plans during fiscal 2011 and in aggregate the pension contributions are expected to be approximately $50 million.
 
 
 
NOTE 18. INCOME TAXES
Income (loss) before income tax expense was attributable to the following jurisdictions:
 
Significant components of the Company's provision (benefit) for income taxes were as follows:
 
The reconciliation of income tax attributable to continuing operations computed at the statutory rate to income tax expense was:
 
 
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the Company made an election to credit certain prior year's taxes instead of claiming deductions. As a result, a benefit of $312 million was recognized in fiscal 2010.
 
 
 
The following is a summary of the components of the deferred tax accounts:
 
The Company had net current deferred tax assets of $2 million and $3 million at June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and non-current deferred tax assets of $141 million and $143 million at June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company also had non-current deferred tax liabilities of $3,486 million and $3,276 million at June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
At June 30, 2010, the Company had approximately $1.1 billion of net operating loss carryforwards available to offset future taxable income. The majority of these net operating loss carryforwards have an unlimited carryforward period; except for approximately $125 million of operating loss carryforwards related to foreign operations expiring in fiscal year 2011. In accordance with the Company's accounting policy, valuation allowances of $143 million and $247 million have been established to reflect the expected realization of these net operating losses as of June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
At June 30, 2010, the Company had approximately $4.2 billion of capital loss carryforwards were available to offset future taxable income. Of the total capital loss carryforwards, approximately $300 million expire in three years, with the remaining having no expiration. In accordance with the Company's accounting policy, valuation allowances of $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion have been established to reflect the expected realization of these capital loss carryforwards as of June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
At June 30, 2010, the Company has approximately $739 million of tax credit carryovers available to offset future income tax expense. This amount resulted from the election to credit certain prior year's taxes instead of claiming deductions. If these credits are not utilized to offset future income tax expense, the credits will expire starting in fiscal year 2013 through fiscal 2019. In accordance with the Company's accounting policy, valuation allowances of $739 million have been established to reflect the expected realization of these tax credit carryovers as of June 30, 2010.
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the change in the accrual for uncertain tax positions, excluding interest and penalties:
 
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, the Company has reduced its accrual for uncertain tax positions by $230 million primarily to reflect the Company's election to credit certain prior year's taxes instead of claiming deductions. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company reduced its accrual for uncertain tax positions, net of an increase in current liabilities, by approximately $1.1 billion (including interest) and recognized a non-cash tax benefit of approximately $1.1 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 due to the resolution of certain tax matters. The Company recognizes interest and penalty charges related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense, which is consistent with the recognition in prior reporting periods. The Company had recorded liabilities for accrued interest of $49 million and $111 million as of June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The Company is subject to tax in various domestic and international jurisdictions and, as a matter of ordinary course, the Company is regularly audited by Federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of all other pending tax matters and does not currently anticipate that the ultimate resolution of other pending tax matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the Company's returns for fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007. Additionally, the Company's income tax returns for the years 2000 through 2008 are subject to examination in various foreign jurisdictions. Consequently, it is reasonably possible that uncertain income tax positions may decrease in the next twelve months. However, actual developments in this area could differ from those currently expected. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits at June 30, 2010 of $243 million, approximately $138 million would affect the Company's effective income tax rate, if and when recognized in future fiscal years.
The Company has not provided for possible U.S. taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are considered to be reinvested indefinitely. Calculation of the unrecognized deferred tax liability for temporary differences related to these earnings is not practicable. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested amounted to approximately $6.8 billion at June 30, 2010.
NOTE 19. SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company regularly reviews its segment reporting and classification. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company aggregated the previously reported Book Publishing segment, Integrated Marketing Services segment and the Newspapers and Information Services segment to report a new Publishing segment because of changes in how the Company manages and evaluates these businesses as a result of evolving industry trends. The Company has revised its segment information for prior fiscal years to conform to the fiscal 2011 presentation.
The Company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the following six segments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's operating segments have been determined in accordance with the Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on operating activities. The Company evaluates performance based upon several factors, of which the primary financial measures are segment operating income (loss) and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.
Segment operating income (loss) does not include: Impairment and restructuring charges, equity earnings (losses) of affiliates, interest expense, net, interest income, other, net, income tax expense and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. The Company believes that information about segment operating income (loss) assists all users of the Company's consolidated financial statements by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization is defined as segment operating income (loss) plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments and eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense includes the depreciation of property and equipment, as well as amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. Amortization of cable distribution investments represents a reduction against revenues over the term of a carriage arrangement and, as such, it is excluded from segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.
Total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are non-GAAP measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures do not reflect cash available to fund requirements. These measures exclude items, such as impairment and restructuring charges, which are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization also excludes depreciation and amortization which are also significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance.
Management believes that total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business because they are the primary measures used by the Company's chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance and allocate resources within the Company's businesses. Total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization provide management, investors and equity analysts measures to analyze operating performance of the Company's business and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data, although historical results, including total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences).
 
 
 
Intersegment revenues, generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment, of approximately $894 million, $910 million and $842 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment. Intersegment operating (loss) profit generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment of approximately $(18) million, $(4) million and $23 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geographic Segments
 
 
 
There is no material reliance on any single customer. Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of customers.
Australasia comprises Australia, Asia, Fiji, Papua New Guinea and New Zealand.
NOTE 20. EARNINGS PER SHARE
The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share under ASC 260, "Earnings per Share" ("ASC 260"):
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 21. QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 22. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
NOTE 23. ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the components of Other, net included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
NOTE 24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)
During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company increased its investment in Tata Sky Ltd. ("Tata Sky") for approximately $88 million in cash. As a result of this transaction, the Company increased its interest in Tata Sky to approximately 30% from the 20% it owned at June 30, 2010.
The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements ("firm commitments") to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. The total firm commitments and future debt payments as of September 30, 2010 and June 30, 2010 were $43,933 million and $41,518 million, respectively. The increase from June 30, 2010 is primarily due to higher domestic and international sports programming rights, new transponder leases and higher international entertainment programming rights.
The Company declared a dividend of $0.075 per share on both the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock in the three months ended September 30, 2010, which was paid in October 2010 to stockholders of record on September 8, 2010. The total aggregate dividend paid to stockholders in October 2010 was approximately $197 million.
In August 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with China Media Capital ("CMC"), a media fund in China, to form a joint venture to explore new growth opportunities in China. The Company will transfer the equity and related assets of its STAR China business along with its Fortune STAR Chinese Movie library with a combined value of approximately $140 million. Following this transaction, CMC will hold a 53% controlling stake in the joint venture and the Company will hold a 47% stake, which it will account for under the equity method of accounting. The Company expects to close this transaction in the second quarter of fiscal 2011.
 
 
 
On August 2, 2010, the Company agreed to backstop 340 million (approximately $450 million) of financing measures that are being initiated by Sky Deutschland. A first step of the financing was completed subsequent to the first quarter of fiscal 2011 and the Company acquired 108 million additional shares of Sky Deutschland increasing its ownership from approximately 45% to 49.9%. The aggregate cost of the shares acquired by the Company was approximately 115 million (approximately $150 million) and the shares were newly registered shares issued pursuant to the capital increase. Proceeds from Sky Deutschland's rights offering was approximately 177 million as the rights offering was not fully subscribed. In accordance with the backstop, the Company is currently negotiating with Sky Deutschland on a bond issuance that is convertible for up to 53.9 million underlying Sky Deutschland shares, and/or a loan to be provided by the Company. The Company will have the right to convert the bond into equity at any time following a 40-day holding period, subject to certain black-out periods. If not converted, the Company will have the option to redeem the bond for cash upon its maturity in four years. The loan will amount to approximately 163 million less any proceeds from the convertible bond. The financing measures are expected to be completed by no later than January 31, 2011.
On October 21, 2010, the parties in the Intermix litigation agreed to a settlement of the action, which is subject to approval by the court. The terms of the settlement remain confidential pending submission of a formal stipulation of settlement to the court, but they are not material to the Company.
NOTE 25. SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR INFORMATION
In May 2007, NAI, a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company as defined in Rule 3-10(h) of Regulation S-X, entered into the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides a $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a sub-limit of $600 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. Borrowings are in U.S. dollars only, while letters of credit are issuable in U.S. dollars or Euros. The significant terms of the agreement include the requirement that the Company maintain specific leverage ratios and limitations on secured indebtedness. The Company pays a facility fee of 0.08% regardless of facility usage. The Company pays interest for borrowings at LIBOR plus 0.27% and pays commission fees on letters of credit at 0.27%. The Company pays an additional fee of 0.05% if borrowings under the facility exceed 50% of the committed facility. The interest and fees are based on the Company's current debt rating. The maturity date is in May 2012; however, NAI may request a $250 million increase in the amount of the credit facility and may also request that the Lenders' commitments be extended until May 2013.
The Parent Guarantor presently guarantees the senior public indebtedness of NAI and the guarantee is full and unconditional. The supplemental condensed consolidating financial information of the Parent Guarantor should be read in conjunction with these consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company uses the equity method to account for the results of all of the non-guarantor subsidiaries, representing substantially all of the Company's consolidated results of operations, excluding certain intercompany eliminations.
The following condensed consolidating financial statements present the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of NAI, the Company and the subsidiaries of the Company and the eliminations and reclassifications necessary to arrive at the information for the Company on a consolidated basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








