FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20100212171426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
News Corporation (the "Company") is filing herewith updated financial statements and other affected financial information for the periods included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 that reflect retrospective adjustments resulting from changes in the Company's segment reporting, a change in presentation of its consolidated statements of operations, the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51," which was effective July 1, 2009 and certain additional explanatory disclosures. The Company regularly reviews its segment reporting and classification and may periodically change its reportable segments to better align with operational changes. As a result of a restructuring in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the operating results of the Company's STAR Group Limited which were previously reported in the Company's Television segment are now reported in its Cable Network Programming segment. The Company has also renamed its Magazines and Inserts segment as the Integrated Marketing Services segment. In addition, the Company has changed the presentation format of its consolidated statements of operations and eliminated the caption "Operating income (loss)."
Except as specifically noted in the filing, this Current Report on Form 8-K does not reflect events or developments thaoccurred after August 12, 2009, and does not modify or update the disclosures in any significant way other than as described above and set forth in the exhibits hereto. Without limiting the foregoing, this filing does not purport to update, amend or restate the information contained in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 for any information, uncertainties, transactions, risks, events or trends occurring, or known to management. More current information is contained in the Company's Forms 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the three months ended September 30, 2009 and December 31, 2009 and other documents filed by the Company with the SEC subsequent to August 12, 2009. Revisions to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 included in this Current Report on Form 8-K as noted above supersede the corresponding portions of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
t
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 12, 2010
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-3 No. 333-120775, Form S-4 Nos. 333-122855, 333-131883, 333-143335, 333-149189, 333-145925, 333-159036 and 333-162539 and Form S-8 Nos. 333-120777, 333-120778, 333-112428, 333-51434 and 333-126567) of News Corporation of our report dated August 12, 2009 (except for Notes 19 and 24, as to which the date is February 12, 2010), with respect to the consolidated financial statements of News Corporation included in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Background
News Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is a diversified global media company with operations in the following eight industry segments: (i) Filmed Entertainment; (ii) Television; (iii) Cable Network Programming; (iv) Direct Broadcast Satellite Television; (v) Integrated Marketing Services; (vi) Newspapers and Information Services; (vii) Book Publishing; and (viii) Other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America. For financial information regarding News Corporation's segments and operations in geographic areas, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Unless otherwise indicated, references to "we," "us," "our," "News Corporation" or the "Company" means News Corporation's predecessor corporation, TNCL (as defined below), and its subsidiaries prior to November 12, 2004 and News Corporation and its subsidiaries from November 12, 2004 forward. Descriptions of transactions that occurred prior to the Reorganization (as defined below) have been adjusted to reflect the consummation of the Reorganization.
On November 12, 2004, a reorganization was completed, whereby News Corporation became the parent company of News Holdings Limited (formerly known as The News Corporation Limited), a South Australia corporation ("TNCL"), and its subsidiaries (the "Reorganization"). The Reorganization was completed pursuant to schemes of arrangements under Australian law in which all ordinary and preferred shares of TNCL were cancelled and, in exchange, holders of those shares received shares of News Corporation voting Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class B Common Stock"), and non-voting Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class A Common Stock"), respectively, on a one-for-two basis.
In March 2005, Fox Acquisition Corp., a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of News Corporation, completed an offer to the holders of Class A common stock of Fox Entertainment Group, Inc. ("FEG") to exchange 2.04 shares of News Corporation's Class A Common Stock for each outstanding share of FEG Class A common stock (the "FEG Offer") that News Corporation did not already own. Shortly after the completion of the FEG Offer, News Corporation effected a merger of FEG with and into Fox Acquisition Corp. In the merger, each share of FEG Class A common stock not acquired in the FEG Offer, other than the shares owned by News Corporation, was converted into 2.04 shares of News Corporation's Class A Common Stock. After the completion of the FEG Offer and the subsequent merger, Fox Acquisition Corp. changed its name to "Fox Entertainment Group, Inc." (for periods following the completion of the FEG Offer and the subsequent merger, referred to as "FEG"). As a result of the transaction described above, News Corporation owns 100% of FEG.
In December 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of Dow Jones & Company, Inc. ("Dow Jones") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 31, 2007, by and among the Company, Ruby Newco LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Ruby Newco"), Dow Jones and Diamond Merger Sub Corporation, as amended (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Dow Jones common stock was converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder, either (x) $60.00 in cash or (y) 2.8681 Class B common units of Ruby Newco. Each Class B common unit of Ruby Newco is convertible into a share of Class A Common Stock.
In February 2008, the Company closed the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement (the "Share Exchange Agreement") with Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty"), whereby Liberty exchanged its entire interest in the Company's common stock (approximately 325 million shares of Class A Common Stock and 188 million shares of Class B Common Stock) for 100% of the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company whose holdings consisted of the Company's approximate 41% interest (approximately 470 million shares) in The DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DIRECTV") constituting the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV, three of the Company's Regional Sports Networks (FSN Northwest, FSN Pittsburgh and FSN Rocky Mountain) and approximately $625 million in cash.
In February 2009, the Company, two newly incorporated subsidiaries of funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP (the "Permira Newcos") and the Company's then majority-owned, publicly-held subsidiary, NDS Group plc ("NDS"), completed a transaction pursuant to which all issued and outstanding NDS Series A ordinary shares, including those represented by American Depositary Shares traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, were acquired for per share consideration of $63 in cash. As part of the transaction, approximately 67% of the NDS Series B ordinary shares held by the Company were exchanged for $63 per share in a mix of approximately $1.5 billion in cash and a $242 million vendor note. Immediately prior to the consummation of the transaction, the Company owned approximately 72% of NDS through its ownership of all of the outstanding NDS Series B ordinary shares. As a result of the transaction, NDS ceased to be a public company and the Permira Newcos and the Company now own approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc ("BSkyB"), which the Company owns an equity interest in, is subject to the information requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, files reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30 in each year. At June 30, 2009, the Company had approximately 55,000 full-time employees. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 and its telephone number is (212) 852-7000. The Company's website is . The Company's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, through the Company's website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Such reports may also be obtained without charge from the Company, and paper copies of any exhibits to such reports are also available for a reasonable fee per page charge to the requesting stockholder. Any materials that the Company filed with the SEC also may be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (http://www.sec.gov).
www.newscorp.com
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document including "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contain statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "predict," "believe" and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places and include
statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company's financial condition or results of operations. Readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. More information regarding these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth under the heading "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's filings with the SEC. The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the SEC. This section should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
The Company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the eight segments described below.
Filmed Entertainment
The Company engages in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide.
Feature Film Production and Distribution
One of the world's largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, Fox Filmed Entertainment ("FFE"), produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. During fiscal 2009, FFE placed 25 motion pictures in general release in the United States. Those motion pictures were produced and/or distributed by the following units of FFE: Twentieth Century Fox and Fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; Fox Searchlight Pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; Fox Atomic, which produced and acquired motion pictures targeting the 17-24 year old demographic audience; and Twentieth Century Fox Animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. The motion pictures produced and/or distributed by FFE in the United States and international territories in fiscal 2009 includedand . FFE has already released or currently plans to release approximately 23 motion pictures in the United States in fiscal 2010, including and
Marley & Me, Taken, X-Men Origins: Wolverine, Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian, Slumdog Millionaire, The Wrestler, The Secret Life of Bees
Notorious
Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs, Avatar, Alvin and the Chipmunks: The Squeakuel, Date Night, Gulliver's Travels, 500 Days of Summer, Whip It!
Amelia.
Pursuant to an agreement with Monarchy Enterprises Holdings B.V. ("MEH"), the parent company of New Regency in which the Company has a 20% interest, and certain of MEH's subsidiaries, FFE distributes certain New Regency films and all films co-financed by FFE and New Regency in all media worldwide, excluding most international territories with respect to television rights. Among its fiscal 2010 releases, FFE currently expects to distribute three films either fully financed by New Regency or co-financed by FFE and New Regency.
Motion picture companies, such as FFE, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. FFE derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the United States and Canada and markets outside of the United States and Canada
("international" markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the Company. The Company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets.
The Company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film's release date in any given territory. The Company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies.
Through Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment, Inc., the Company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of FFE, its affiliates and other producers in the United States, Canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of DVDs. In fiscal 2009, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,017 produced and acquired titles, including 29 new FFE film releases, approximately 712 catalog titles and approximately 276 television and non-theatrical titles. In international markets, the Company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 851 releases in fiscal 2009, including approximately 29 new FFE film releases, approximately 660 catalog titles and approximately 162 television and non-theatrical releases. In fiscal 2009, the Company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer ("MGM"), releasing approximately 1,358 and 774 MGM home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and internationally, respectively, as well as its domestic home video distribution arrangement with Lions Gate, releasing approximately 1,777 Lions Gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. During fiscal 2009, the domestic home entertainment division released 141 Blu-ray high definition ("HD") disc format ("Blu-ray") titles, including 25 new FFE film releases and 106 catalog titles and 10 television and non-theatrical releases. In international markets, the Company released 110 Blu-ray titles, including 16 new FFE film releases and 94 catalog titles. The Company also distributed 51 Blu-ray titles (9 new releases and 42 catalog titles) from MGM domestically and 32 titles (two new releases and 30 catalog titles) internationally, and 72 Blu-ray titles from Lions Gate domestically.
Units of FFE license motion pictures and other programs in the United States, Canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services. The license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. Among third party license agreements that units of FFE have in place in the United States for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with Home Box Office ("HBO"), providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through 2015, as well as arrangements with Starz Encore Group. The license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee's gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. In addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. Units of FFE also license motion pictures in the United States to direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") pay-per-view services operated by EchoStar Communications Corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by DIRECTV and iN Demand L.L.C. In addition, units of FFE
license motion pictures and other programs to third parties, including Apple and Amazon, for electronic sell-through over the Internet, enabling consumers in the United States to acquire the right to retain permanently such programs. In international markets, units of FFE license motion pictures and other programming to leading third party pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services, as well as to pay television and video-on-demand services operated by various affiliated entities.
. Motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. The Company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public's interest in its products. The number of motion pictures released by the Company's competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the Company's shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the Company's motion pictures to succeed. The commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the Company is affected substantially by the public's unpredictable response to them. The competitive risks affecting the Company's home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the Company's competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as DVDs, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services.
Competition
The Company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the Company's programs. For a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the Company's programs, see " Intellectual Property."
Television Programming, Production and Distribution
. During fiscal 2009, TCFTV produced television programs for the FOX Broadcasting Company ("FOX"), ABC Television Network ("ABC"), CBS Broadcasting, Inc. ("CBS"), NBC Television Network ("NBC"), Comedy Partners ("Comedy Central") and F/X Networks ("FX"). TCFTV currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: , , , , ,,(a co-production with Adelaide Productions) and for FOX;and for ABC; for CBS; for FX; for Comedy Central; and for Superstation Inc. ("TBS"). Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. All other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by TCFTV, utilized by other units of the Company or sold to third parties.
Twentieth Century Fox Television ("TCFTV")
24
American Dad, Bones
The Cleveland Show
Dollhouse
Family Guy
Glee, King of the Hill
Lie To Me, The Simpsons, Sit Down, Shut Up
Sons of Tucson
Better Off Ted, Modern Family
The Deep End
How I Met Your Mother
Sons of Anarchy
Futurama
Neighbors From Hell
Television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. As these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming has also increased. Therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. Successful U.S. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in Canadian and international markets, (ii) released in DVD box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the United States (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (iv) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (v) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. Typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and DBS programmers in the United States. The decision of a television network to continue a
series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series' audience ratings.
. Twentieth Television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the United States. Twentieth Television distributes a program portfolio that includes the Company's library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the Company, as well as to basic cable networks. First-run programs distributed by Twentieth Television include the game show
Twentieth Television
Are You Smarter Than a 5
th
Grader?
and the court shows and .
Divorce Court
Judge Alex
Twentieth Television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by Twentieth Television in its programs. Twentieth Television licenses such shows as , , , and to cable and broadcast networks. Twentieth Television also manages and distributes the long running series, and , and sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators.
How I Met Your Mother
My Name Is Earl
Family Guy
American Dad, King of the Hill, The Unit, M*A*S*H, Boston Legal, Bones, Malcolm in the Middle
The Simpsons
COPS
America's Most Wanted
. FtvS is a program supplier to the major U.S. and international broadcast and cable networks. FtvS is currently producing and for USA Network, for TNT, and the upcoming late-night for FOX, and and for E!. Other FtvS international co-productions include , co-produced with Televisa for NBC, and , co-produced with CTV and ProSieben for ABC.
Fox Television Studios ("FtvS")
Burn Notice
White Collar
Saving Grace
Mental
The
Wanda Sykes Show
Kendra
The Girls Next Door
Persons Unknown
Defying Gravity
. Similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. The Company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public's interest in its products. In addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties.
Competition
Motion Picture and Television Library
The Company's motion picture and television library (the "Fox Library") consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. Motion pictures in the Fox Library include many successful and well-known titles, such as , , , the series, , the series, , the series, , , , , the series, , and as well as seven of the top 30 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are (together with Paramount Pictures Corporation), , , , , and .
The Sound of Music
Mrs. Doubtfire
Planet of the Apes
Die Hard
Dr. Dolittle
X-Men
The Day After Tomorrow
Ice Age
Sideways
Walk the Line
The Devil Wears Prada
Little Miss Sunshine
Night at the Museum
Alvin and the Chipmunks
Slumdog Millionaire
Taken,
Titanic
Star Wars
Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace
Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith
Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones
Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi
Independence Day
The Fox Library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. The television programming in the Fox Library consists of such classic series as , , , , , , , ,, , , , and , as well as such current programming as ,
The Mary Tyler Moore Show
M*A*S*H
Hill Street Blues
Doogie Howser, M.D.
L.A. Law
The Wonder Years
The Practice
Ally McBeal
Boston Legal, My Name is Earl, Angel
Dharma & Greg
In Living Color
The X-Files
Buffy the Vampire Slayer
NYPD Blue
The Simpsons
, , , , , ,, and .
Bones
King of the Hill
24
Family Guy
Dollhouse
Futurama
Better Off Ted, How I Met Your Mother, Sons of Anarchy
American Dad
Lie To Me
Television
The Company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the broadcasting of network programming in the United States.
Fox Television Stations
Fox Television Stations, Inc. ("Fox Television Stations") owns and operates 27 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ("DMAs"). Fox Television Stations owns and operates two stations in nine DMAs, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the first, second and third largest DMAs, respectively.
Of the 27 full power stations, 17 stations are affiliates of FOX ("FOX Affiliates"). For a description of the programming offered to FOX Affiliates, see " FOX Broadcasting Company." In addition, Fox Television Stations owns and operates ten stations affiliated with MyNetworkTV, Inc. ("MyNetworkTV").
The following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations. Unless otherwise noted, all stations are FOX Affiliates.
 
 
Source: Nielsen Media Research, January 2009
 
FOX Broadcasting Company ("FOX")
FOX has 217 FOX Affiliates, including the 17 stations owned and operated by the Company, which reach approximately 99% of all U.S. television households. In general, each week FOX regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on Saturday. FOX's prime-time programming features such series as, ,,and ; unscripted series such asand ; and various movies and specials. In addition, a significant component of FOX's programming consists of sports programming, with FOX providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the National Football Conference of the National Football League (the "NFL") and Major League Baseball ("MLB"), as well as live coverage of the premier racing series (the Sprint Cup series) of the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ("NASCAR") and the Bowl Championship Series ("BCS") (excluding the BCS championship game). FOX also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on Saturday mornings provided by Worldlink Ventures ("Worldlink"), a media sales firm. FOX's agreement with Worldlink extends through the 2009-2010 broadcast season.
House
The Simpsons
Bones
Fringe,
24
American Idol
So You Think You Can Dance
FOX's prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. During the 2008-2009 traditional September to May broadcast season, FOX ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults aged 18 to 49 (FOX had a 3.7 rating and a 10 share, ABC had a 2.9 rating and an 8 share, CBS had a 3.2 rating and a 9 share and NBC had a 2.8 rating and a 7 share). The median age of the FOX viewer is 45 years, as compared to 47 years for NBC, 49 years for ABC and 53 years for CBS.
FOX obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. The terms of those agreements generally provide FOX with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. FOX licenses its film programming from major film studios and independent film production companies. National sports programming, such as the NFL, MLB and NASCAR programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. FOX's current licenses with the NFL, MLB, and NASCAR extend until the 2013 NFL season, the 2013 MLB season and the 2014 NASCAR season. FOX also has the right to broadcast the BCS through 2010.
FOX provides programming to the FOX Affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. Such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. These affiliation agreements generally require FOX Affiliates to carry FOX programming in all time periods in which FOX programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements.
MyNetworkTV
MyNetworkTV is currently a primetime general entertainment broadcast television network with 179 affiliates, including ten stations owned and operated by the Company, and reaching approximately 97% of U.S. households. Through the 2008-2009 television season, MyNetworkTV delivered two hours per night of branded prime-time programming every night of the week except Sunday. Branded nights of programming included entertainment shows on Monday, reality crime shows on Tuesday, comedy on Wednesdays, movies on Thursdays and Saturdays and on Fridays.
WWE Smackdown
For the 2009-2010 television season that begins in September 2009, MyNetworkTV will be moving to a new distribution programming service model, distributing two hours per night of original and off-network programming for Twentieth Television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. With this transition, MyNetworkTV is entering into new affiliation agreements with its affiliates. As of August 10, 2009, MyNetworkTV had 133 affiliates for the 2009-2010 television season, including 10 affiliates owned by the Company, which will reach approximately 83% of U.S. households.
The network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. FOX and MyNetworkTV compete for programming, viewers and advertising with ABC, NBC, CBS and The CW Television Network. ABC, NBC and CBS each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than FOX and MyNetworkTV and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than FOX or MyNetworkTV. FOX and MyNetworkTV also compete with other non-network sources of television service, including cable television and DBS services. Other sources of competition may include home video exhibition, digital video recorders ("DVR"), the Internet and home computer usage. In addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace.
Competition.
Each of the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and Internet websites. All of the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations are located in highly competitive markets. Additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. Competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other
broadcast networks, cable television systems, DBS services and other media and general economic conditions. Competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public that is often difficult to predict.
Cable Network Programming
The Company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators in the United States and internationally.
. FOX News owns and operates the FOX News Channel, a 24-hour all news national cable channel currently available to approximately 97 million U.S. households according to Nielsen Media Research, as well as the FOX Business Network which launched to 30 million subscribers in October 2007 and currently has over 50 million subscribers.
FOX News
FOX News also produces a weekend political commentary show,, for broadcast on local FOX television stations throughout the United States. FOX News, through its FOX News Edge service, licenses news feeds to FOX Affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the United States and abroad. FOX News also produces and runs the websites, FOXNews.com and FOXBusiness.com, and owns and produces the national FOX News Radio Network, which licenses news updates, long form programs and the FOX News Talk Channel to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers.
FOX News Sunday
. Fox Sports Net, Inc. ("FSN, Inc.") is the largest regional sports network ("RSN") programmer in the United States, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. FSN, Inc.'s sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 12 RSNs, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the "FSN RSNs") and National Sports Programming, which operates FSN ("FSN"), a national sports programming service. FSN, Inc. also is affiliated with, through FSN, an additional nine RSNs that are not owned by FSN, Inc. (the "FSN Affiliated RSNs"). FSN provides the FSN RSNs and the FSN Affiliated RSNs with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. The FSN RSNs and the FSN Affiliated RSNs currently have approximately 91 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 68 of 82 U.S. professional sports teams in MLB, the National Basketball Association ("NBA") and the National Hockey League ("NHL"); collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams.
FSN
. Currently reaching approximately 95 million U.S. households according to Nielsen Media Research, FX is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. FX's lineup for the 2009-2010 season includes popular original programming such as the Emmy and Golden Globe award-winning drama series and and the critically acclaimed . Also included in the 2009-2010 season line-up is the fifth season of the comedy series and the second season of . Current syndicated series include , and. During the 2009-2010 season, FX will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including , , , and . The Company also produces and distributes FX HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in HD.
FX
Nip/Tuck
Damages
Rescue Me
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia
Sons of Anarchy
That 70's Show
Spin City, Malcolm in the Middle
The Bernie Mac Show
Live Free or Die Hard
Superman 3
Kung Fu Panda
The Simpsons Movie
. Currently reaching over 73 million households in the United States according to Nielsen Media Research, SPEED brings viewers into the world of auto and motorcycle racing and the surrounding lifestyle, showcasing significant NASCAR races (including exclusive coverage of the annual All Star
SPEED
Race), events and original programming, as well as other top racing series, such as Formula One, Grand American Road Racing, American LeMans, the 24 Hours of LeMans, American Motorcycle Association, AMA Supercross, Monster Jam, World Superbike and MotoGP racing and events. SPEED's popular original series is a reality-based racing show in its third season that pits amateur racers against each other in a unique drag racing format. SPEED's original series, , will return for a second season in 2009 as well as the new series, . SPEED also is distributed to subscribers in Mexico, Canada and Latin America. The Company also produces and distributes SPEED HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in HD.
PINKS All Out
Wrecked
Dangerous Drives
. FUEL TV is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. FUEL TV covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, BMX, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. Programming includes U.S. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective.
FUEL TV
. Fox College Sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, FCS Pacific, FCS Central and FCS Atlantic. Fox College Sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation's top collegiate conferences, coaches' shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the FSN RSNs and certain of the FSN Affiliated RSNs across the country.
Fox College Sports
. Fox Movie Channel ("FMC") is Hollywood's first and only studio-based movie network. FMC airs Twentieth Century Fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen.
Fox Movie Channel
. Fox Soccer Channel is an English-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. Top properties include the UEFA Champions League, English Premier League, Italian Serie A and Major League Soccer, along with daily soccer news programs and a weekly viewer call-in show.
Fox Soccer Channel
. The Company has an approximate 33% equity interest in Fox Pan American Sports LLC ("FPAS"), with HM Capital Partners, LLC owning the remainder. FPAS owns and operates Spanish-language sports businesses, including the Fox Sports Latin America network (a Spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain Caribbean and Central and South American nations outside of Brazil) and Fox Sports en Espaol (the first Spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the United States).
Fox Pan American Sports
. Fox Reality Channel is a 24-hour national programming service that airs original, off-network and syndicated unscripted programming made popular on major U.S. and international networks.
Fox Reality Channel
. The Company owns an approximate 49% interest in the Big Ten Network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the Big Ten Conference and Big Ten athletics, academics and related programming, and Big Ten Network HD, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in HD.
Big Ten Network
The Company holds an approximate 67% interest in NGC Network US LLC, which produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel and the National Geographic Channel HD in the United States, with NGT, Inc., a subsidiary of the National Geographic Society ("NGT"), holding the remaining interest. The National Geographic Channel currently reaches approximately 69 million households in the United States according to Nielsen Media Research.
National Geographic U.S.
The National Geographic Channels air documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture.
FIC operates, develops and distributes primarily factual and general entertainment channels in various countries in Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa and Asia, including: the Fox Channel, Fox Life, FX, SPEED, Utilisma, Fox Crime, Fox Life, CULT, NEXT, The History Channel, the Voyage Channel, FOX Sports, STAR WORLD and STAR MOVIES.
Fox International Channels ("FIC").
FIC also owns a 52.2% interest in NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC (collectively "NGC International"), with NGT holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of BSkyB holding the remaining 21% interest. NGC International produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel in various international markets. NGC International also produces and distributes the National Geographic Channel HD, the Nat Geo Adventure channel, the Nat Geo Wild channel and the Nat Geo Music channel in international markets. The National Geographic Channel is currently shown in 34 languages and in approximately 166 countries internationally, including the United States.
FIC owns a 55% equity interest in LAPTV, a partnership which distributes three premium pay television channels (Movie City East and West, Cinecanal East and West and its multiplex channel Cinecanal 2) and one basic television channel (The Film Zone East and West) in Latin America (excluding Brazil). Such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of Twentieth Century Fox and three other studio partners in the English language with Spanish subtitles. FIC has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in LAPTV.
FIC also owns a majority equity interest in Elite Sports Limited, a company that owns and distributes BabyTV, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to over 65 countries outside of the United States.
FIC also manages Channel [V] Thailand in which the Company owns a 49% interest. Channel [V] Thailand owns a Thai language music channel and licenses its Channel [V] brand to a third party in Australia to operated a music channel.
. STAR India develops, produces and broadcasts 19 channels in eight languages in India, which is distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television ("IPTV") and direct-to-home ("DTH") operators for distribution throughout Asia to their subscribers. STAR India's primary sources of programming for its channels include original programming produced, commissioned or acquired by STAR India, a Hindi film library comprised of approximately 730 titles and an extensive Hindi television program library comprised of approximately 480 titles. STAR India's channels include the Hindi general entertainment channel STAR PLUS and the Bengali general entertainment channel STAR JALSHA.
STAR India
In addition, the Company owns an approximate 26% interest in Media Content & Communications Services (India) Private Limited, which owns and operates three Indian language 24-hour news and current affairs channels.
In January 2009, the Company expanded into South India regional programming by forming STAR Jupiter, a joint venture with Asianet TV Holdings Private Limited to provide television services for South Indian audiences. The joint venture consists of a 80.9% stake by the Company in VTPL, which owns and operates the Tamil Language channel VIJAY, and VTPL, in turn, holds a 62.9% stake in Asianet Communications Limited which owns and operates the Malayalam language channels ASIANET
and ASIANET PLUS, the Kannada language channel SUVARNA and the Telugu language channel SITARA.
The Company also owns an approximate 26% stake in Balaji Telefilms Limited ("Balaji"), which is one of the largest television content production companies in India, the shares of which are listed on The Stock Exchange, Mumbai and the National Stock Exchange of India. Balaji currently produces serials broadcast on STAR PLUS and other general entertainment channels in India.
The Company also holds a 20% stake in Tata Sky Limited which owns and operates a DTH platform in India, an approximate 22% stake in Hathway Cable & Datacom Private Limited which is a multi-system cable operator in India that also provides broadband Internet services, as well as a 50/50 joint venture with Den Digital Entertainment Networks Private Limited to operate a television channel distribution business in India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Bhutan which exclusively distributes STAR India's owned and affiliated channels in these territories.
In fiscal 2009, the Company expanded into television home shopping in India through a 50/50 joint venture with CJ O Shopping Co. Ltd., a leading home shopping company in South Korea and China.
. STAR Greater China develops, produces and broadcasts Chinese language televisions programming primarily in Asia on both a pay television and free-to-air basis. STAR Greater China's programming is distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, IPTV and DTH operators. STAR Greater China's channels include STAR CHINESE CHANNEL, XING KONG WEI SHI, STAR CHINESE MOVIES, STAR CHINESE MOVIES 2 and Channel [V]. The primary sources of programming for STAR Greater China's channels include original programming produced, commissioned or acquired by STAR Greater China and an extensive contemporary Chinese film library comprised of over 650 titles.
STAR Greater China
The Company owns a 50% interest in ESPN STAR Sports, with ESPN owning the remainder. ESPN STAR Sports is the leading sports broadcaster in Asia and operates 17 channels in different languages.
ESPN STAR Sports.
. The Company owns an approximate 18% interest in Phoenix, a company listed on the Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. Phoenix owns and operates Chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at Chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in Asia and Europe and pay television platforms in the United States.
Phoenix
Competition.
Cable network programming is another highly competitive business. Cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, DVDs, Internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. Important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts.
General.
FOX News Channel's primary competition comes from the cable networks CNN, MSNBC and CNN Headline News. Fox Business Network's primary competition comes from the cable networks CNBC and Bloomberg Television. FOX News Channel and FOX Business Network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks.
FOX News.
A number of basic and pay television programming services, such as ESPN and Versus, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the FSN RSNs' audience. FSN is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. On a national level, FSN's primary competitor is ESPN and, to a lesser extent, ESPN2 and Versus. In regional markets, the FSN RSNs compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors.
Sports programming operations.
In addition, the FSN RSNs and FSN compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. The FSN RSNs compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. FSN competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television "superstations" that distribute sports. Independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. Distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams' games on their systems. In certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by FSN RSNs.
FX faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as USA, TNT, Spike TV, HBO and Showtime, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as FX. FX also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming.
FX.
In India, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and STAR India's Indian entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. STAR India also competes in India to acquire both Hindi film and programming rights.
STAR India.
In mainland China, the Company competes primarily in two distinct markets for which it has received government approvals to distribute its services. One is among three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels throughout mainland China. The second is among general households in Guangdong that can view local Chinese channels. In Taiwan, the Company competes with various local and foreign satellite channels, depending on programming genre.
STAR Greater China.
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
The Company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, SKY Italia. The Company also owns equity interests in BSkyB and Sky Deutschland AG (formerly Premiere AG) ("Sky Deutschland"), which are engaged in the DBS business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading "-Equity Interests").
SKY Italia
SKY Italia currently distributes over 180 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in Italy. This programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and SKY Italia's original
programming, such as, Italy's first 24-hour news channel. As of June 30, 2009, SKY Italia had approximately 4.8 million subscribers.
SKY News
. The number of pay television subscribers with services in Italy, other than SKY Italia, is growing and is expected to continue to increase. SKY Italia's competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband Internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ("DTT") services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. The Company is currently prohibited from providing a DTT service under regulations of the European Commission. Competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment that requires SKY Italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts, as well as to provide third parties with access to the SKY Italia platform.
Competition
Integrated Marketing Services
News America Marketing Group ("NAMG") publishes free-standing insert publications and provides in-store marketing products and services.
NAMG is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the United States. Free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local Sunday newspapers. Advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay NAMG to produce free-standing inserts, and NAMG contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers' Sunday editions. NAMG produces over 69 million free-standing inserts more than 45 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,500 Sunday newspapers throughout the United States. NAMG, through an affiliate, also produces over eight million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 200 Canadian newspapers in Canada.
NAMG is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 50,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers worldwide.
SmartSource is the brand name that is linked with NAMG's vast assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts, NAMG's instant coupon machines and various shelf advertising products. The SmartSource brand currently reaches approximately 150 million consumers weekly.
The SmartSource iGroup manages NAMG's portfolio of database marketing and on-line marketing products and services. The database marketing business, branded SmartSource Direct, provides database marketing and technology solutions for both retailers and manufacturers. The SmartSource Savings Network, which includes SmartSource.com, is an Internet-based network of approximately 230 newspaper, retailer and lifestyle sites connected through a common platform that currently delivers printable coupons, samples and other consumer marketing to an audience of approximately 65 million consumers.
. NAMG competes against other providers of marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. Competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption.
Competition
Newspapers and Information Services
The Company is engaged in the newspaper and information services business, primarily through its subsidiaries News International, News Limited, Dow Jones and The New York Post.
News International Limited ("News International")
News International publishes , , and in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the United Kingdom. Both , a daily published Monday through Saturday, and are leading quality newspapers. , published each morning Monday through Saturday, and , published on Sunday, are both popular, mass market newspapers. The average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers during the six months ended June 30, 2009 was approximately:  599,009;  1,214,603;  3,022,058; and  2,993,776. News International also publishes , a free newspaper distributed by hand in central London each afternoon Monday through Friday.
The Times
The Sunday Times
The Sun
News of the World
The Times
The Sunday Times
The Sun
News of the World
The Times
The Sunday Times
The Sun
News of the World
thelondonpaper
The printing of all four of News International's national newspapers (except Saturday and Sunday supplements) takes place principally in its four printing facilities located in England, Scotland and Ireland.
News International also publishes , a weekly literary review.
The Times Literary Supplement
News Limited
News Limited is the largest newspaper publisher in Australia, owning approximately 146 daily, Sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which four are free commuter titles and 102 are suburban publications (including 16 of which News Limited has a 50% interest). News Limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in Australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major Australian cities of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart and Darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. News Limited's daily and Sunday newspapers account for more than 69% of the total circulation of all daily and Sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in Australia.
News Limited's principal daily newspapers in Australia are:, published in Sydney; the, published in Melbourne; published in Brisbane; , published in Adelaide; , published in Hobart; and the , published in Darwin. , which is Australia's only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in six cities and distributed nationwide. News Limited's other principal daily newspapers in Australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. The average Monday to Friday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2009 was approximately as follows:  138,000;  373,000; the  520,000;  218,000;  186,000;  46,000; and the  22,000. The average Saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2009 was approximately as follows:  310,000;  327,000; the  509,000;  305,000;  255,000;  62,000; and the  32,000.
The Australian; The Daily Telegraph
Herald Sun
The Courier-Mail,
The Advertiser
The Mercury
Northern Territory News
The Australian
The Australian
The Daily Telegraph
Herald Sun
The Courier-Mail
The Advertiser
The Mercury
Northern Territory News
The Weekend Australian
The Daily Telegraph
Herald Sun
The Courier-Mail
The Advertiser
The Mercury
Northern Territory News
News Limited's principal Sunday newspapers in Australia are:, published in Sydney; the, published in Melbourne; published in Brisbane; the, published in Adelaide; , published in Perth; the , published in Hobart; and the published in Darwin. All these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan Sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. The average paid circulation of each of these Sunday newspapers during fiscal 2009 was approximately as follows:  653,000; the  616,000;)  557,000; the  307,000;  321,000; the  60,000; and the  23,000.
The Sunday Telegraph
Sunday Herald Sun
The Sunday Mail,
Sunday Mail
The Sunday Times
Sunday Tasmanian
Sunday Territorian,
The Sunday Telegraph
Sunday Herald Sun
The Sunday Mail (Brisbane
Sunday Mail (Adelaide)
The Sunday Times
Sunday Tasmanian
Sunday Territorian
The other newspapers that News Limited owns and publishes in Australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. The majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. In the Sydney suburban markets, News Limited owns 23 weekly newspapers; in Melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in Brisbane, 19 weekly newspapers; in Adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in Perth, News Limited's 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. The aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended March 31, 2009 was approximately 5,119,000 homes.
In addition to these newspapers, News Limited also publishes four other publications (three monthlies and one weekly) with an average circulation for the six months ended March 31, 2009 of approximately 130,000 homes for the monthly titles and approximately 40,000 for the weekly title.
News Limited's suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. News Limited's other newspapers in Australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas.
Except for 36 of its suburban newspapers and four regional newspapers, News Limited's Australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the Company.
Dow Jones
Dow Jones provides global business and financial news, information and insight through multiple channels of media. Dow Jones' consumer media business includes The Wall Street Journal, Barron's and MarketWatch franchises (including print, online, television and radio), and its enterprise media business includes Factiva, Newswires, Client Solutions, Indexes and other products and services. Dow Jones' local media business provides news and information of general interest to local communities throughout the United States.
. Dow Jones' consumer media business offers business and financial information content to the consumer market around the globe.
Consumer Media Group
. is one of the United States' largest daily national newspapers. During fiscal 2009, had an average print circulation of 1.7 million. three major national editions are printed at 21 plants (including contract printers), of which 12 are owned by Dow Jones. also sells regional advertising in 18 regional editions and pre-printed advertisements in various subsets of the circulation.
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal's
The Wall Street Journal
. is a weekly magazine that caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. In fiscal 2009, had an average weekly
Barron's
Barron's
Barron's
circulation of 310,000. is printed at 19 plants, including the 12 plants owned by Dow Jones, as well as additional contract printers.
Barron's
. The Wall Street Journal Digital Network consists of WSJ.com, Marketwatch.com, Barron's.com, and related sites and, as of June 30, 2009, served 34 million visitors per month with more than 550 million page views. WSJ.com is the largest paid subscription news website on the Internet, with over one million subscribers as of June 30, 2009. Certain sections of WSJ.com are also available to non-subscribers. MarketWatch.com covers the pulse of the markets for engaged investors, and is a leading provider of business, company and market news, financial information and analytics. Barron's Online is a stand-alone subscription product, which had more than 150,000 subscribers as of June 30, 2009.
The Wall Street Journal Digital Network
. , which had an average circulation of 81,000 during fiscal 2009, is headquartered in London and printed in Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom. , which had an average circulation of 80,000 during fiscal 2009, is headquartered in Hong Kong and printed in Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. Dow Jones also publishes The Wall Street Journal Special Editions, which are a collection of pages in local languages.
International Editions of The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal Europe
The Wall Street Journal Asia
The Wall Street Journal's
Dow Jones' consumer media business also includes other channels of content distribution, including: television; radio/audio; online video; consumer electronic licensing; and classroom, campus and Sunday editions. Dow Jones also publishes , a Hong Kong-based monthly periodical. In addition, eFinancialNews Holdings Ltd., based in London, serves the European financial services industry with print, online, training and events businesses.
Other channels of distribution and publications.
The Wall Street Journal
The Far Eastern Economic Review
. Dow Jones' enterprise media business offers business and financial news, information and solutions to financial services firms, businesses and government institutions around the world.
Enterprise Media Group
In fiscal 2009, the Enterprise Media Group reorganized its business to better align to market opportunities in ten key customer and industry segmentsWealth Management, Investment Banking, Investment Management, Sales & Trading, B2B Sales, Researchers & Knowledge Workers, Public Relations & Corporate Communications, Private Markets, Risk & Compliance and Energy & Commodities. The Enterprise Media Group is focused on developing new products and services tailored to the specific needs of the professionals in those segments.
The Enterprise Media Group provides real-time news, research, aggregated content and information solutions to organizations through the following products: Dow Jones Factiva, Dow Jones Newswires, Dow Jones VentureSource and specialty publications and databases. Dow Jones Factiva is a leading provider of global business content with approximately 1.8 million paying subscribers as of June 30, 2009. Dow Jones Newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information for approximately 438,000 financial professionals around the world as of June 30, 2009. As of June 30, 2009, Dow Jones Newswires had a dedicated staff of approximately 900 journalists, in addition to drawing on the global resources of and Agence France-Presse. Dow Jones VentureSource is a database of over 43,000 venture-backed companies and over 11,000 private capital firms across the United States, Europe, Israel and China
The Wall Street Journal
Also, the Enterprise Media Group's Dow Jones Indexes business licenses the Dow Jones Industrial Average and other indexes as the basis for trading options, futures, unit trusts, annuities,
exchange traded funds, mutual funds, derivatives and specialized structured products. Dow Jones Indexes offers more than 130,000 indexes, including a variety of specialty and hedge fund indexes. It also sells or licenses the data behind various indexes for benchmarking purposes. Through Dow Jones Reprint Solutions, Dow Jones sells print or electronic reprints of and stories.
The Wall Street Journal's
Barron's
. Dow Jones' Local Media Group publishes local media print publications, including eight general interest dailies published in California, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Oregon and Pennsylvania, and related local websites. During fiscal 2009, average print circulation for these dailies was approximately 247,000, with Sunday circulation of approximately 282,000. The Local Media Group also publishes 14 weekly newspapers and more than 30 other publications.
Local Media Group
.
Strategic Alliances
. SmartMoney is a 50/50 joint venture between Dow Jones and Hearst. SmartMoney magazine, published monthly, had circulation of more than 800,000 copies in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. SmartMoney also includes SmartMoney.com and SmartMoney Custom Solutions.
SmartMoney
. Vedomosti is a joint venture owned equally by Dow Jones, Pearson Plc and Independent Media, which publishes a Russian language business daily. Vedomosti had circulation of over 55,000 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, and includes original content and content from and the translated into Russian.
Vedomosti
The Wall Street Journal
Financial Times
. ("STOXX"). STOXX is a joint venture owned equally by Dow Jones, the Deutsche Borse and the Swiss Exchange. STOXX develops, maintains, distributes and markets the Dow Jones STOXX indices.
STOXX, Ltd
("DJ/IAC Online Ventures"). DJ/IAC Online Ventures is a 50/50 joint venture with IAC/InterActiveCorp that operates a community-driven, personal finance website.
DJ/IAC Online Ventures, LLC
New York Post
The (the "") is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and distributed in New York City, Baltimore, Boston, Florida and California. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the newspaper had an average weekday circulation of approximately 550,000. The Company prints the in a printing facility in the Bronx, New York and uses third party printers in its other markets in the United States.
New York Post
Post
Post
The Company's Community Newspaper Group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the New York metropolitan area.
Competition
. The newspapers published by the Company compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers and also compete with television, radio, the Internet and other communications media in their respective locales. Competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. The success of the newspapers published by the Company in competing with other newspapers and media for advertising depends upon advertisers' judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. Competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. Such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics.
General
In recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenues. This is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper. The Company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the newspaper industry.
. Dow Jones' online publications compete with other websites that offer continuously updated coverage of business news, as well as licensing of electronic content. Unlike WSJ.com, competitors do not, for the most part, utilize an online paid subscription model, and most remain free sites. Competitors of Dow Jones' online publications include FT.com, New York Times Digital, TheStreet.com, Bloomberg, Forbes.com, Yahoo!Finance, CNET, CNN Money, MSNMoney/CNBC and Google Finance.
Dow Jones Online Publications
. Dow Jones' newswires compete with other global financial newswires, including Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg L.P., as well as many Internet-based providers of financial news and information. Dow Jones' newswires maintain a stronger market position in North America than internationally. Dow Jones Indexes competes with the indexes distributed by various organizations, including Standard & Poor's, FTSE (the index company that is jointly owned by the London Stock Exchange and the Financial Times) and MSCI, Inc. Factiva competes with various business information service providers, including LexisNexis, Thomson Reuters, Hoover's and OneSource. Factiva also competes with various Internet-based information search services, such as Google, Microsoft and Yahoo!.
Dow Jones Enterprise Media
Book Publishing
HarperCollins Publishers ("HarperCollins") is engaged in English language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world's largest English language book publishers. HarperCollins' principal businesses are HarperCollins Publishers LLC ("HarperCollins U.S."), headquartered in New York, HarperCollins Publishers Limited, headquartered in London, and The Zondervan Corporation LLC, headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan. HarperCollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. In the United Kingdom, HarperCollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well.
During fiscal 2009, HarperCollins U.S. had 165 titles on the bestseller list, with 15 titles hitting number one, including by Steve Harvey, by David Wroblewski, by Neal Stephenson, by Jessica Seinfeld, by John Grogan, by Janet Evanovich, by Julia Quinn, by Neil Gaiman and Dave McKean, by Kelley Armstrong, by Aprilynne Pike, by Victoria Kann, by Neil Gaiman, by Jamie Lee Curtis, by John Grogan and by Clement C. Moore.
New York Times
Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man
The Story of Edgar Sawtelle
Anathem
Deceptively Delicious
Marley & Me
The Grand Finale
Mr. Cavendish, I Presume
The Graveyard Book
The Awakening
Wings
Goldilicious
Coraline
Big Words for Little People
A Very Marley Christmas
The Night Before Christmas
The book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market and has been affected by consolidation trends. This market continues to change in response to technological innovations, electronic book devices and other factors. Recent years have brought a number of significant mergers among leading book publishers. There have also been a number of mergers completed in the distribution channel. HarperCollins must compete with other publishers, such as Random House, Penguin Group, Simon & Schuster and Hachette Livre, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. Although HarperCollins currently has strong positions in each of its markets, further
Competition.
consolidation in the book publishing industry could place it at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale and resources.
Other
Fox Interactive Media
Fox Interactive Media, Inc.'s ("FIM") digital media properties include MySpace.com, FoxSports.com, Scout.com, IGN.com, RottenTomatoes.com, AskMen.com, Photobucket.com and other Company web properties. These businesses create original entertainment, news and information content and leverage the Company's current and archived video assets, and derive revenue principally from the sale of Internet advertising and sponsorships, as well as from subscription services and e-commerce, including the digital sale of video games, television programming and other entertainment products. The Company has a search technology and services agreement through August 2010 with Google Inc. ("Google"), pursuant to which Google provides search and keyword targeted advertising on an exclusive basis for a majority of the Company's web properties domestically and internationally.
MySpace is a technology company connecting people through personal expression, content, and culture. MySpace.com had approximately 68.4 million unique U.S. users in June 2009 according to comScore Media Metrix. MySpace is a social networking website that integrates personal profiles, photos, videos, mobile, messaging, games, and the world's largest music community.
MySpace Video (formerly MySpaceTV) continues to distribute premium and user generated video content and tools to its users and recently announced programming partnerships with HBO and Endemol (for the web original "Married on MySpace").
MySpace launched a number of new features, services and initiatives during fiscal 2009, including , a social community of small business profiles that empowers users to discover new businesses, create reviews and ratings and share their experiences at their favorite local restaurants, a web based instant messaging feature, and  a new profile option that comes with a set of customizable layouts and editing tools that allow users to easily modify the content as well as the look and feel of the profile.
MySpace Local
MySpaceIM,
Profile 2.0,
MySpace Music, LLC ("MySpace Music") is a partnership between MySpace, Sony BMG Music Entertainment, Sony/ATV Music Publishing, Universal Music Group Warner Music Group and EMI Group/Capitol Records. The MySpace Music service launched in September 2008 and combined the MySpace music community with comprehensive catalogues of music content, offering music streaming, MP3 digital downloads, ringtones and other features.
IGN Entertainment, Inc.'s ("IGN") network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related Internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the Internet. IGN's Games sites (IGN.com, GameSpy, FilePlanet, TeamXbox and others) is the number one gaming information network on the Internet with over 14 million unique users and 232 million page views in the United States in June 2009 according to comScore Media Metrix. In addition, IGN's Direct2Drive is a digital distribution site and IGN's GameSpy Technology group provides technology for online game play in video games. IGN also owns and operates one of the most popular movie review websites on the Internet, RottenTomatoes.com, and one of the leading men's lifestyle websites, AskMen.com.
FOX Sports Interactive, which includes FOXSports.com, FOX Sports Mobile, Scout Media and WhatifSports.com, is a leader in digital sports programming, offering sports fans a comprehensive mix of
news, exclusive analysis, fantasy games and one of the Internet's largest collections of online sports video. FOXSports.com, FOX Sports Interactive's flagship site, had an average of 13 million unique users and 334 million page views in the United States during June 2009 according to comScore Media Metrix. FOX Sports Interactive produces more than four hours per day of original video specifically for the Internet, which is distributed on FOXSports.com, within MSN video and, for FOX Sports Mobile, on millions of mobile devices in the United States. FOX Sports Mobile also includes live event programming. Scout Media provides college football, college basketball, NFL and MLB fans with exclusive access to team-specific insider information and a comprehensive database and video library of the top high school athletes in the United States. Whatifsports.com is the leading provider of sports simulation games and game prediction statistics.
The Fox Audience Network is an online advertising network and technology services provider specializing in advanced targeting for FIM's websites and third-party clients, and serves advertising across over 500 publisher sites as of June 2009.
Photobucket.com, Inc. operates one of the Internet's most popular sites, linking billions of personal photos, graphics, slideshows and videos daily to hundreds of thousands of websites worldwide. In June 2009, Photobucket had over 24 million unique visitors and approximately 692 million page views in the United States according to comScore Media Metrix.
. These digital media properties compete with other Internet sites for advertisers, users and traffic. These properties develop new tools and features to remain competitive in the Web 2.0 world. These new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with these digital media businesses.
Competition
News Outdoor
News Outdoor Group ("News Outdoor") operates outdoor advertising companies. News Outdoor owns an approximately 73% interest in Media Support Services Limited ("MSS"), the largest outdoor advertising company in Russia. In certain limited circumstances, the minority stockholders of MSS have the right to sell, and News Outdoor has the right to purchase, the minority interests at fair market value. News Outdoor also owns or has interests in outdoor advertising companies in Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic, Ukraine, Bulgaria and Southeast Asia.
The Company has announced that it intends to explore strategic options for News Outdoor in connection with News Outdoor's continued development plans. The strategic options include, but are not limited to, exploring the opportunity to expand News Outdoor's existing shareholder group through new partners. No agreement has yet been entered into with respect to any transaction.
Other Operations
The Company operates Fox Mobile Entertainment, which includes Jamba (known as Jamster in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other English-speaking territories), a leading international provider of mobile entertainment, offering mobile products directly via mobile phones, including branded content from content providers around the world. Such content includes music, mobile games, video and original content made exclusively for use on mobile phones. Jamba currently distributes mobile content to consumers in over 25 territories around the world.
The Company owns or has interests in the following free-to-air, general entertainment television stations: bTV and GTV in Bulgaria; Channel 10 in Israel; LNT and TV5 in Latvia; Fox Televizija in
Serbia; and FOX TV in Turkey. In addition, the Company owns or operates interests in Bulgarian and Russian radio stations.
News Digital Media is the Company's Australian online division. In addition to maintaining the Company's Australian websites, News Digital Media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in Australia. News Digital Media sites include carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, MOSHTIX.com.au and truelocal.com.au. News Digital Media also has a 50% stake in CareerOne.com.au.
Equity Interests
BSkyB
The Company holds an approximate 39% interest in BSkyB. BSkyB's ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and its American Depositary Shares, each representing four BSkyB ordinary shares, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), in each case under the symbol "BSY." BSkyB operates the leading pay television broadcast service in the United Kingdom and Ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. BSkyB acquires and commissions programming to broadcast on its own channels and supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the United Kingdom and Ireland. BSkyB also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to DTH subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of DSL subscribers. For more information on BSkyB, please see its reports filed with the SEC.
NDS
The Company holds an approximate 49% interest in NDS. NDS creates technologies and applications that enable pay television operators to deliver digital content to televisions, set-top boxes, DVRs, personal computers, portable media players, removable media and other mobile devices securely.
FOXTEL
The Company, Telstra Corporation Limited, an Australian telecommunications company, and Consolidated Media Holdings, an Australian media and entertainment company, own and operate FOXTEL, a cable and satellite television service in Australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. At June 30, 2009, FOXTEL had approximately 1.6 million managed subscribers (including subscribers to Optus, an Australian telecommunications company). At June 30, 2009, 100% of the FOXTEL managed subscriber base was connected to FOXTEL's digital service, which delivers over 150 channels on cable and satellite.
Other Investments
The Company owns an approximate 44% interest in Sky Network Television Limited, a land-linked UHF network and digital DBS service in New Zealand.
SkyNZ.
. The Company has an approximate 32% equity interest in Hulu, LLC ("Hulu") which operates an online video service that offers video content from Fox, NBC Universal, The Walt Disney Company and over 100 other third party content licensors. Hulu's premium programming is available at Hulu.com and over 35 destination sites online, including AOL, IMDb, MSN, MySpace and Yahoo!.
Hulu
. As of June 30, 2009, the Company owned an approximate 38% equity interest in Sky Deutschland, the leading pay television operator in Germany and Austria. Since June 30, 2009,
Sky Deutschland
the Company acquired additional shares in Sky Deutschland, increasing its ownership to 39.96 % as of August 5, 2009.
Government Regulation
General
Various aspects of the Company's activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations. The introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the Company's products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the Company.
Filmed Entertainment
FFE is subject to the provisions of so-called "trade practice laws" in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. These laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. Further, pursuant to various consent judgments, FFE and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the United States, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters.
United States
.
In countries outside of the United States, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of FFE to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of U.S. products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the World Trade Organization's General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and General Agreement on Trade and Services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the European Union.
Other International Regulation
.
Television
In general, the television broadcast industry in the United States is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The FCC regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act").
The Communications Act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. Under the Communications Act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the
licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. After considering these factors, the FCC may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. Fox Television Stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. Six of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. On June 13, 2007 and May 15, 2008, Fox Television Stations entered into agreements with the FCC that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to FCC or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts, or (ii) inquiries from the FCC regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules.
For information on the television stations owned and operated by the Company, see "Fox Television Stations" above.
On June 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease transmission in analog and convert to all digital broadcasts ("DTV"). By that date, the 27 stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations terminated their analog transmissions and, as required by law, each station surrendered one of the two broadcast channels it had been allotted in order to facilitate the transition to DTV. All Fox Television Stations continue to transmit digital signals on their remaining channels. Under FCC rules, television stations may use their second channel to broadcast either one stream of "high definition" ("HD") digital programming or to "multicast" several streams of standard definition digital programming or a mixture of both. Broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free-to-air program service. Fox Television Stations is currently formulating plans for use of its digital channels. It is difficult to assess the impact of cessation of analog broadcasting and how the conversion to DTV will affect Fox Television Stations' business.
On June 2, 2003, the FCC concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 Telecom Act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the "June 2003 Order"). In the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2004, Congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the UHF Discount, 39% of U.S. television households.
Several parties appealed the June 2003 Order. The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the "Third Circuit") stayed the effectiveness of the new rules and, on June 24, 2004, remanded the FCC's June 2003 Order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the FCC had made to its ownership regulations. On February 4, 2008, the FCC issued an order that concluded its 2006 review of its broadcast ownership regulations and addressed the issues raised by the Third Circuit's remand (the "February 2008 Order"). The Commission decided there should be no changes to its rules relating to the ownership of multiple television stations in the same market. Those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate DMAs; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same DMA if their Grade B coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the DMA after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. On the question of
common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market, the Commission modified its rules to create a presumption that such combinations are in the public interest in the top 20 DMAs provided (i) only one television station and one newspaper are involved; (ii) at least eight "major media voices" will remain in the DMA after the combination; and (iii) the television station is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. Any other newspaper/broadcast combination is presumed to be inconsistent with the public interest. The presumption may be overcome if certain criteria enumerated by the FCC are satisfied. The February 2008 Order has been appealed by several parties, including the Company, and the appeal is currently pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the Court's action on this appeal or its effect on the Company.
Fox Television Stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by Congress. Fox Television Stations retains an attributable interest in the and two television stations in the New York DMA. On October 6, 2006, the FCC reaffirmed the Company's permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the and WNYW(TV), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the and WWOR-TV (the "October 2006 Order"). The WWOR-TV/ combination is not entitled to a positive presumption under the FCC's revised newspaper cross-ownership rule because of the Company's ownership of a second television station in the New York DMA. The Company is seeking a permanent waiver of the prohibition from the FCC on the grounds that it satisfies the criteria to overcome the negative presumption contained in the new rule. Parties opposed to the October 2006 Order filed a petition for reconsideration with the FCC, which was denied on May 22, 2009. Other opponents of the October 2006 Order have asked the FCC to reconsider its May 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the Company's request for a permanent waiver. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the FCC's action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the Company.
Post
Post
Post
Post
FCC regulations implementing the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (the "1992 Cable Act") require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station's market ("must carry") or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ("retransmission consent"). Generally, the Company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by Fox Television Stations. On November 30, 2007, the FCC resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are required to ensure that all "must carry" television signals remain viewable in homes with only analog equipment. In addition, the FCC reaffirmed that "must carry" stations that "multicast" several streams of digital programming are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single "primary" programming stream. The digital signals of stations that elect retransmission consent may be carried in any manner consistent with the agreement between the cable system and the broadcaster. The Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of January 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ("Carry One, Carry All"). FCC regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable "must carry" or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. Satellite carriers are expected to seamlessly replace stations' analog signals with digital signals. In March 2008, the FCC decided that its Carry One, Carry All policy also applies to local stations' HD DTV signals; however, satellite carriers may phase in the carriage of all HD DTV signals in a DMA over a four year period beginning in February 2010.
Legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, under FCC license renewal
processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a "significant purpose," the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. A television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license.
FCC rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Beginning in March 2004, the FCC implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. Under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed "indecent" and "profane." The FCC also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. Under the new FCC policy, both complaints about indecency and FCC enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by Fox Television Stations are pending at the FCC.
On March 15, 2006, the FCC determined that the 2002 and 2003 programs, both live broadcasts on FOX, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the "March 15 Order"). However, since these broadcasts preceded the FCC's March 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. Nonetheless, in April 2006, Fox Television Stations appealed the March 15 Order to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals (the "Second Circuit"). On June 4, 2007, the Second Circuit granted Fox's appeal, vacating the FCC's decision in the cases as well as the FCC's new policy on "fleeting expletives" in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. The United States obtained review by the U.S. Supreme Court, which reversed the Second Circuit's decision and remanded the case back to the Second Circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the Second Circuit's action on this case or its effect on the Company.
Billboard Music Awards
Billboard Music Awards
On February 22, 2008, the FCC issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 FOX Affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the Company, on the grounds that an April 7, 2003 episode of the program violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. On April 4, 2008, the United States commenced an action in federal district court in the District of Columbia against the five Company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the FCC. One of the stations, WDAF-TV, subsequently paid the $7,000 forfeiture and was dismissed from the case in connection with the sale of that station by the Company to Oak Hill Capital Partners in July 2008. The Company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the FCC's forfeiture order is unconstitutional. It is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the Company.
Married by America
On June 15, 2006, the Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act was signed into law. This law raises the maximum amount the FCC can impose for a violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts from $32,500 to $325,000 per incident. Some members of Congress have supported extending the indecency rules applicable to free-to-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming, and/or requiring multichannel video program distributions ("MVPD") to provide their subscribers with the option of purchasing programming on a channel by channel (or  la carte) basis or to provide them with a family-friendly program tier without obligating the subscriber to purchase any other programming channels or tiers.
Modifications to the Company's programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of Fox Television Stations and FOX. If indecency
regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the Company's cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. Regulation requiring  la carte or family-friendly program options might decrease the distribution of the Company's cable services and increase their marketing expenses, which could affect results of operations.
The FCC continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children's television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. FCC rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. Although not required by FCC regulation, the Company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with V Chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. FCC regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license.
Cable Network Programming
FCC regulations adopted pursuant to the 1992 Cable Act (the "Program Access Rules") prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. The Program Access Rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing MVPDs in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. The cable networks operated by the Company are not currently subject to the Program Access Rules.
United States.
The Company broadcasts television programming over a "footprint" covering approximately 53 Asian countries. Government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently in each country. At one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. Some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. At the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution.
Asia
.
Most television services within Asia, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements, although these requirements are imposed on the local broadcast operators who collect the subscription fees rather than on program suppliers, such as the Company, which license local broadcast operators to receive their programming. In addition, most countries in which the Company operates control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as the Company, are subject. Certain countries also impose obligations to carry government-operated or terrestrial channels or require a minimum percentage of local content. Other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming.
Most countries in which the Company operates, including India, Indonesia and Greater China, have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry.
In India, private satellite dish ownership, including DTH, is allowed. Television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through DTH delivery. Terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations. In September 2008, the Indian government liberalized regulations to allow broadcasters to provide signals to IPTV operators.
India.
All cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. Retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as STAR India's channels, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including censorship codes. The Indian government also places certain restrictions on advertising and requires that certain media, whether produced in India or abroad, must be certified by the Central Board of Film Certification prior to exhibition in India.
Limits are imposed by the Indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for certain channels, including certain STAR India channels. In addition, maximum retail prices have been mandated for different categories of cities.
In certain metropolitan areas, viewers are required to buy or rent a set-top-box from cable operators to access pay television channels, which allows viewers to choose the pay television channels they wish to subscribe to on an  la carte basis, rather than on a bundled basis. Further, cable operators are required to provide a pay television channel at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters' share is restricted to 45%. Broadcasters and cable operators must execute standard format agreements regarding the provision of television signals in certain metropolitan areas.
There is no tariff regulation for DTH; however, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to DTH platforms at 50% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators. Broadcasters such as STAR India are required to publish basic distribution terms specifying the bouquet and " la carte" rates within a price matrix formula to enable the distributors to take channels at their discretion. Broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters.
In mainland China, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels, government and foreign institutions that can receive only authorized broadcasts. Local cable and free-to-air terrestrial operators are required to broadcast a minimum percentage of local content and retransmission of foreign satellite channels by local operators is prohibited except with special approval.
China.
In Taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. The maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. Cable television operators offer analog basic channels in a single package and digital premium channels in packages or on an  la carte basis as a buy through to their basic analog service. All channels offered in Taiwan must be licensed. Retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content.
Taiwan.
Additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to the Company are restrictions on foreign investment in platform, television programming, production or channel businesses, uplink-downlink licensing regulations, content protection under copyright or communications law, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming.
Program Access Conditions
In connection with its approval of the transfer of licenses controlled by DIRECTV to the Company in 2003, the FCC imposed several conditions relating to the carriage and availability of its broadcast and cable programming services. All the conditions terminated when the Company divested its interest in DIRECTV in February 2008 except for the commercial arbitration condition, which required the Company to enter into commercial arbitration if negotiations with an MVPD over retransmission consent for its television stations' signals and/or carriage of the regional sports networks it owns, controls or manages, reached an impasse. The Company asked the FCC for immediate termination of the arbitration condition on the grounds it was no longer necessary in light of the Company's divestiture of its interest in DIRECTV. The FCC granted the Company's request and terminated the commercial arbitration condition effective June 15, 2009.
Internet
The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 ("COPPA") prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 ("CAN-SPAM") regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or "spam." Online services provided by the Company may be subject to COPPA and CAN-SPAM requirements.
Congress and some state legislatures are considering legislation that would regulate how businesses operate on the Internet, including measures relating to privacy and data security, as well as specific legislation aimed at social networking sites, such as MySpace.com. Members of Congress have announced they will introduce legislation that would regulate the collection of data about consumers' Web browsing activities across the Internet that is used to serve targeted advertising. In addition, in February 2009, the FTC's staff released guidelines for Internet publishers (such as MySpace.com) and Internet advertising networks (such as Fox Audience Network) to address concerns about consumer privacy, transparency and control raised by such collection and use of online behavioral data, and called for self-regulation. On July 3, 2009, the industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles. It is unclear whether these industry efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials. The effect of possible privacy and data security legislation on the Company's business cannot be determined.
Some foreign governments are raising similar safety, security and privacy concerns. In particular, the European Union ("EU") is actively evaluating the privacy implications of online behavioral data collection and usage. Different policy options, including new regulations, are being considered at both the EU and member state levels. Most of this activity is in its early stages and it is therefore unclear how any government action would affect the Company's business.
The Company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments.
Raw Materials
As a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the Company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. In order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the Company's paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. The Company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate.
Intellectual Property
The Company's intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. The Company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and direct-to-home satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as DVDs, books, newspapers and magazines, among others.
The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the United States and other key foreign territories. To protect these assets, the Company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and Internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. However, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company's products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company's intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.
Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company's intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company's operations. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Therefore, the Company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement.

Exhibit 99.2
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with "Item 7- Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and the other financial information included elsewhere herein.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
This document contains statements that constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The words "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "predict," "believe" and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements appear in a number of places in this document and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the Company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The readers of this document are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. More information regarding these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth under the heading "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The Company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This section should be read together with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this Current Report on Form 8-K .
INTRODUCTION
Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to help provide an understanding of News Corporation and its subsidiaries' (together "News Corporation" or the "Company") financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. This discussion is organized as follows:
 
 
 
 
OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS
The Company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in eight segments. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company reclassified STAR, which develops, produces and distributes television programming in Asia, from the Television segment to the Cable Network Programming segment. This reclassification was the result of a restructuring to combine the sales and distribution operations of the STAR channels with those of the Company's other international cable businesses. In addition, the Magazines and Inserts segment has been renamed the Integrated Marketing Services segment. The Company has revised its segment information for prior fiscal years to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation. The Company's eight segments are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filmed Entertainment
The Filmed Entertainment segment derives revenue from the production and distribution of feature motion pictures and television series. In general, motion pictures produced or acquired for distribution by the Company are exhibited in U.S. and foreign theaters, followed by home entertainment, video-on-demand and pay-per-view television, premium subscription television, network television and basic cable and syndicated television exploitation. Television series initially produced for the networks and first-run syndication are generally licensed to domestic and international markets concurrently and subsequently released in seasonal DVD box sets. More successful series are later syndicated in domestic markets. The length of the revenue cycle for television series will vary depending on the number of seasons a series remains in active production and, therefore, may cause fluctuations in operating results. License fees received for television exhibition (including international and U.S. premium television and basic cable television) are recorded as revenue in the period that licensed films or programs are available for such exhibition, which may cause substantial fluctuations in operating results.
The revenues and operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment are significantly affected by the timing of the Company's theatrical and home entertainment releases, the number of its original and returning television series that are aired by television networks and the number of its television series in off-network syndication. Theatrical and home entertainment release dates are determined by several factors, including timing of vacation and holiday periods and competition in the marketplace. The distribution windows for the release of motion pictures theatrically and in various home entertainment formats have been compressing and may continue to change in the future. A further reduction in timing between theatrical and home entertainment releases could adversely affect the revenues and operating results of this segment.
The Company enters into arrangements with third parties to co-produce many of its theatrical productions. These arrangements, which are referred to as co-financing arrangements, take various forms. The parties to these arrangements include studio and non-studio entities, both domestic and foreign. In several of these agreements, other parties control certain distribution rights. The Filmed Entertainment segment records the amounts received for the sale of an economic interest as a reduction of the cost of the film, as the investor assumes full risk for that portion of the film asset acquired in these transactions. The substance of these arrangements is that the third-party investors own an interest in the film and, therefore, receive a participation based on the respective third-party investor's interest in the profits or losses incurred on the film. Consistent with the requirements of Statement of Position ("SOP") 00-2, "Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films" ("SOP 00-2"), the estimate of a third-party investor's interest in profits or losses incurred on the film is determined by reference to the ratio of actual revenue earned to date in relation to total estimated ultimate revenues.
Operating costs incurred by the Filmed Entertainment segment include: exploitation costs, primarily theatrical prints and advertising and home entertainment marketing and manufacturing costs; amortization of capitalized production, overhead and interest costs; and participations and talent residuals. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead.
The Company competes with other major studios, such as Disney, Paramount, Sony, Universal, Warner Bros. and independent film producers in the production and distribution of motion pictures and DVDs. As a producer and distributor of television programming, the Company competes with studios, television production groups and independent producers and syndicators, such as Disney, Sony, NBC Universal, Warner Bros. and Paramount Television, to sell programming both domestically and internationally. The Company
also competes to obtain creative talent and story properties, which are essential to the success of the Company's filmed entertainment businesses.
Television and Cable Network Programming
The Company's television operations primarily consist of FOX, MyNetworkTV, Inc. ("MyNetworkTV") and the 27 television stations owned by the Company.
The television operations derive revenues primarily from the sale of advertising. Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising may affect revenues. The U.S. television broadcast environment is highly competitive and the primary methods of competition are the development and acquisition of popular programming. Program success is measured by ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, with the top rated programs commanding the highest advertising prices. FOX and MyNetworkTV compete for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other broadcast networks, such as CBS, ABC, NBC and The CW, independent television stations, cable program services, as well as other media, including DVDs, video games, print and the Internet. In addition, FOX and MyNetworkTV compete with the other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the country.
The television stations owned by the Company compete for programming, audiences and advertising revenues with other television stations and cable networks in their respective coverage areas and, in some cases, with respect to programming, with other station groups, and in the case of advertising revenues, with other local and national media. The competitive position of the television stations owned by the Company is largely influenced by the strength of FOX and MyNetworkTV, and, in particular, the prime-time viewership of the respective network, as well as the quality of the programming of FOX and MyNetworkTV.
The Company's U.S. cable network operations primarily consist of the Fox News Channel ("FOX News"), the FX Network ("FX"), Regional Sports Networks ("RSNs"), the National Geographic Channels, SPEED and the Big Ten Network. The Company's international cable networks consist of the Fox International Channels ("FIC"), with channels primarily in Latin America, Europe and Asia, and STAR, with channels throughout Asia.
Generally, the Company's cable networks, which target various demographics, derive a majority of their revenues from monthly affiliate fees received from cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators based on the number of their subscribers. Affiliate fee revenues are net of the amortization of cable distribution investments (capitalized fees paid to a cable operator or DBS operator to facilitate the launch of a cable network). The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Cable television and DBS are currently the predominant means of distribution of the Company's program services in the United States. Internationally, distribution technology varies region by region.
The Company's cable networks compete for carriage on cable television systems, DBS systems and other distribution systems with other program services. A primary focus of competition is for distribution of the Company's cable network channels that are not already distributed by particular cable television or DBS systems. For such program services, distributors make decisions on the use of bandwidth based on various considerations, including amounts paid by programmers for launches, subscription fees payable by distributors and appeal to the distributors' subscribers.
The most significant operating expenses of the Television segment and the Cable Network Programming segment are the acquisition and production expenses related to programming and the production and technical expenses related to operating the technical facilities of the broadcaster or cable network. Other expenses include promotional expenses related to improving the market visibility and awareness of the broadcaster or cable network and its programming. Additional expenses include sales commissions paid to the in-house advertising sales force, as well as salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead expenses.
The Company has several multi-year sports rights agreements, including contracts with the National Football League ("NFL") through fiscal 2014, contracts with the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ("NASCAR") for certain races and exclusive rights for certain ancillary content through calendar year 2014, a contract with Major League Baseball ("MLB") through calendar year 2013 and a contract for the Bowl Championship Series ("BCS"), excluding the championship game, through fiscal 2010. These contracts provide the Company with the broadcast rights to certain U.S. national sporting events during their respective terms. The costs of these sports contracts are charged to expense based on the ratio of each period's operating profit to estimated total operating profit for the remaining term of the contract.
The profitability of these long-term U.S. national sports contracts is based on the Company's best estimates at June 30, 2009 of directly attributable revenues and costs; such estimates may change in the future and such changes may be significant. Should revenues decline from estimates applied at June 30, 2009, additional amortization of rights may be recorded. Should revenues improve as compared to estimated revenues, the Company may have an improved operating profit related to the contract, which may be recognized over the estimated remaining contract term.
While the Company seeks to ensure compliance with federal indecency laws and related Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") regulations, the definition of "indecency" is subject to interpretation and there can be no assurance that the Company will not broadcast programming that is ultimately determined by the FCC to violate the prohibition against indecency. Such programming could subject the Company to regulatory review or investigation, fines, adverse publicity or other sanctions, including the loss of station licenses.
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
The DBS segment's operations consist of SKY Italia, which provides basic and premium programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in Italy. SKY Italia derives revenues principally from subscriber fees. The Company believes that the quality and variety of video, audio and interactive programming, quality of picture, access to service, customer service and price are the key elements for gaining and maintaining market share. SKY Italia's competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband Internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ("DTT") services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. The Company is currently prohibited from providing a pay DTT service under regulations of the European Commission.
SKY Italia's most significant operating expenses are those related to the acquisition of entertainment, movie and sports programming and subscribers and the production and technical expenses related to operating the technical facilities. Operating expenses related to sports programming are generally recognized over the course of the related sport season, which may cause fluctuations in the operating results of this segment.
Integrated Marketing Services
The Integrated Marketing Services segment derives revenues from the sale of advertising space in free-standing inserts, in-store marketing products and services, promotional advertising and production fees. Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising may affect revenues. Operating expenses for the Integrated Marketing Services segment include paper, promotional, printing, retail commissions, distribution and production costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead.
Newspapers and Information Services
The Newspapers and Information Services segment derives revenues primarily from the sale of advertising space and the sale of published newspapers and subscriptions. Adverse changes in general market conditions for advertising may affect revenues. Circulation revenues can be greatly affected by changes in the cover prices of the Company's and/or competitors' newspapers, as well as by promotional activities.
Operating expenses for the Newspapers and Information Services segment include costs related to newsprint, ink, printing costs and editorial content. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead.
The Newspapers and Information Services segment's advertising volume, circulation and the price of newsprint are the key variables whose fluctuations can have a material effect on the Company's operating results and cash flow. The Company has to anticipate the level of advertising volume, circulation and newsprint prices in managing its businesses to maximize operating profit during expanding and contracting economic cycles. Newsprint is a basic commodity and its price is sensitive to the balance of supply and demand. The Company's costs and expenses are affected by the cyclical increases and decreases in the price of newsprint. The newspapers published by the Company compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers and also compete with television, radio, Internet and other media alternatives in their respective markets. Competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, service, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. The success of the newspapers published by the Company in competing with other newspapers and media for advertising depends upon advertisers' judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. Competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. Such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. In recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing circulation volume and revenues. This is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper.
The Newspapers and Information Services segment also derives revenue from the provision of subscriber-based information services and the licensing of products and content to third-parties. Losses in the number of subscribers for these information services may affect revenues. The information services provided by the Company also compete with other media sources (free and subscription-based) and new media formats. Licensing revenues depend on new and renewed customer contracts, and may be affected if the
Company is unable to generate new licensing business or if existing customers renew for lesser amounts, terminate early or forego renewal.
The Company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the Newspapers and Information Services industries.
Book Publishing
The Book Publishing segment derives revenues from the sale of general and children's books in the United States and internationally. The revenues and operating results of the Book Publishing segment are significantly affected by the timing of the Company's releases and the number of its books in the marketplace. The book publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in the summer months and during the end-of-year holiday season. This market place continues to change due to technical innovations, electronic book devices and other factors. Each book is a separate and distinct product, and its financial success depends upon many factors, including public acceptance.
Major new title releases represent a significant portion of the Company's sales throughout the fiscal year. Consumer books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting in the return of unsold books. In the domestic and international markets, the Company is subject to global trends and local economic conditions.
Operating expenses for the Book Publishing segment include costs related to paper, printing, authors' royalties, editorial, art and design expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits, rent and other routine overhead.
Other
The Other segment consists primarily of:
FIM
FIM sells advertising, sponsorships and subscription services on the Company's various digital media properties. Significant FIM expenses include development costs, advertising and promotional expenses, salaries, employee benefits and other routine overhead. The Company's digital media properties include the social networking site MySpace.com, IGN.com, RottenTomatoes.com, Askmen.com and Photobucket.com. FIM also has a search technology and services agreement with Google which expires in August 2010.
News Outdoor
News Outdoor sells outdoor advertising space on various media, primarily in Russia and Eastern Europe. Significant expenses associated with the News Outdoor business include site lease costs, direct production, maintenance and installation expenses, salaries, employee benefits and other routine overhead. The Company has announced that it intends to explore strategic options for News Outdoor in connection with News Outdoor's continued development plans. The strategic options include, but are not limited to, exploring the opportunity to expand News Outdoor's existing shareholder group through new partners. No agreement has yet been entered into with respect to any transaction.
Other Business Developments
In July 2008, the Company completed the sale of eight of its owned-and-operated FOX network affiliated television stations (the "Stations") for approximately $1 billion in cash. The Stations included: WJW in Cleveland, OH; KDVR in Denver, CO; KTVI in St. Louis, MO; WDAF in Kansas City, MO; WITI in Milwaukee, WI; KSTU in Salt Lake City, UT; WBRC in Birmingham, AL; and WGHP in Greensboro, NC. In connection with the transaction, the Stations entered into new affiliation agreements with the Company to receive network programming and assumed existing contracts with the Company for syndicated programming. No portion of the sale proceeds was allocated to the new network affiliation agreements as they were negotiated at fair value and are consistent with similar pre-existing contracts with other third party-owned FOX affiliated stations. In addition, the Company recorded a gain of approximately $232 million in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
In October 2008, the Company purchased VeriSign Inc.'s noncontrolling interest in the Jamba joint venture for approximately $193 million in cash, increasing the Company's interest to 100%. During fiscal 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to Jamba's goodwill and finite-lived intangible assets. (See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation)
During fiscal 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with Sky Deutschland AG (formerly Premiere AG) ("Sky Deutschland") and the bank syndicate of Sky Deutschland to provide Sky Deutschland with a new financing structure and additional capital through two equity capital increases. The first and second equity capital increases were structured as rights issues and were completed in January 2009 and April 2009, respectively. In the first equity capital increase, the Company purchased additional shares of Sky Deutschland for approximately $33 million. In the second equity capital increase, the Company purchased additional shares of Sky Deutschland for approximately $150 million, increasing the Company's ownership percentage in Sky Deutschland to 30.5%. As a result of the rights issues and other transactions, the Company invested an aggregate of approximately $300 million in shares of Sky Deutschland during fiscal 2009 and, as of June 30, 2009, the Company had an approximate 38% ownership interest in Sky Deutschland.
Since June 30, 2009, the Company acquired additional shares of Sky Deutschland, increasing its ownership to 39.96% as of August 5, 2009.
In February 2009, the Company, two newly incorporated subsidiaries of funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP (the "Permira Newcos") and the Company's then majority-owned, publicly-held subsidiary, NDS Group plc ("NDS"), completed a transaction pursuant to which all issued and outstanding NDS Series A ordinary shares, including those represented by American Depositary Shares traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, were acquired for per-share consideration of $63 in cash (the "NDS Transaction"). As part of the transaction, approximately 67% of the NDS Series B ordinary shares held by the Company were exchanged for $63 per share in a mix of approximately $1.5 billion in cash, which included $780 million of cash retained upon the deconsolidation of NDS, and a $242 million vendor note. Immediately prior to the consummation of the NDS Transaction, the Company owned approximately 72% of NDS through its ownership of all of the outstanding NDS Series B ordinary shares and, accordingly, included the results of NDS in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. As a result of the transaction, NDS ceased to be a public company and the Permira Newcos and the Company now own approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively. The Company's remaining interest in NDS is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. A gain of $1.2 billion was recognized on the sale of the Company's interest and is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
Impact of the Current Economic Environment
The United States and global economies are currently undergoing a period of economic uncertainty, and the related capital markets are experiencing significant disruption. In certain of the markets in which the Company's businesses operate there has been a weakening in the economic climate due to housing market downturns and tightening of global credit markets resulting in pressure on labor markets, retail sales and consumer confidence. These recent economic trends have adversely impacted advertising revenues at the Company's Television, Newspapers and Information Services and Other segments, as well as the retail sales of books and DVDs.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Results of Operations  Fiscal 2009 versus Fiscal 2008
The following table sets forth the Company's operating results for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008.
 
** not meaningful
 The Company's revenues decreased 8% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to revenue decreases at the Television, Filmed Entertainment and Other segments, as well as unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations. Television segment revenues decreased primarily due to the absence of revenues from the Stations sold in July 2008, lower advertising revenues as a result of general weakness in the advertising markets and the absence of revenue from the Super Bowl which was broadcast on FOX during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease at the Filmed Entertainment segment was primarily due to decreased worldwide home entertainment and theatrical revenues. The Other segment's revenue decrease reflects the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in NDS in February 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS operating results subsequent to February 5, 2009 is included within Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates. These decreases were partially offset by increased revenues at the Cable Network Programming segment, primarily due to an increase in net affiliate revenues.
Overview
Operating expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased 5% as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to decreased amortization of production and participation costs and lower home entertainment manufacturing and marketing costs at the Filmed Entertainment segment, as well as favorable foreign currency fluctuations. Also contributing to these decreases was the absence of costs related to the Super Bowl and the Stations at the Television segment and the incremental decrease of costs related to NDS in the Other segment, reflecting the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in February 2009. These decreases were partially offset by higher programming costs at the Cable Network Programming segment, higher programming costs due to increases in entertainment programming license fees at FOX, as well as costs associated with the return of several programs in fiscal 2009 which were not broadcast in fiscal 2008 due to the Writer's Guild of America strike in the Television segment and, in the Newspapers and Information Services segment, incremental expenses from Dow Jones & Company, Inc ("Dow Jones"), which was acquired in December 2007.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 increased approximately 3% as compared to fiscal 2008. The Newspapers and Information Services segment's cost increase for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was primarily due to incremental expenses from Dow Jones. Also contributing to this increase were higher employee costs partially offset by favorable foreign currency fluctuations and decreased costs related to NDS and the Stations.
Depreciation and amortization decreased 6% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the absence of depreciation on the decommissioned U.K. printing presses included in fiscal 2008, which was partially offset by higher depreciation due to additional property, plant and equipment placed into service and incremental depreciation and amortization from the acquisition of Dow Jones.
Impairment and Restructuring charges
As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company performed an interim impairment review in advance of its annual impairment assessment because the Company believed events had occurred and circumstances had changed that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets below their carrying amounts. These events included: (a) the decline of the price of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock below the carrying value of the Company's stockholders' equity; (b) the reduced growth in advertising revenues; (c) the decline in the operating profit margins in some of the Company's advertising-based businesses; and (d) the decline in the valuations of other television stations, newspapers and advertising-based companies as determined by the current trading values of those companies. In addition, the Company also performed an annual impairment assessment of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
As a result of the impairment reviews performed, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately $8.9 billion ($7.2 billion, net of tax) in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The charges consisted of a write-down of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily FCC licenses in the Television segment) of $4.6 billion, a write-down of $4.1 billion of goodwill and a write-down of the Newspapers and Information Services segment's fixed assets of $185 million in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." As a result of the continued adverse economic conditions in the markets in which the Company conducts business, the Company will continue to monitor its goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets for possible future impairment.
As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, certain of the markets in which the Company's businesses operate have experienced a weakening in the current economic climate which has adversely affected advertising revenue and other consumer driven spending. As a result, a number of the Company's businesses implemented a series of operational restructuring actions to address the Company's cost structure, including FIM, which is restructuring the Company's digital media properties to align resources more closely with business priorities. This restructuring program has included significant job reductions, both domestically and internationally, to enable the businesses to operate on a more cost effective basis. In conjunction with this restructuring program, the Company also eliminated excess facility requirements. In fiscal 2009, several other businesses of the Company implemented similar plans, including the U.K. and Australian newspapers, HarperCollins, MyNetworkTV and Fox Television Stations. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $312 million. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, restructuring charges included $19 million related to a redundancy program in the United Kingdom in connection with printing press upgrades.
Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates decreased $636 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily a result of the inclusion of losses from Sky Deutschland, principally representing a write-down of $422 million of the Company's investment in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Also contributing to the decrease in earnings from equity affiliates was the absence of contributions from The DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DIRECTV") due to the exchange of the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV to Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty") in February 2008 and the disposition of the Company's entire interest in Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. ("Gemstar") in May 2008. These decreases were partially offset by higher contributions from British Sky Broadcasting Group plc ("BSkyB"), principally from reduced write-downs related to its ITV plc ("ITV") investment.
Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates 
 
** not meaningful
Interest expense, net for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was relatively consistent with the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, as the issuance in November 2007 of $1.25 billion 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and the issuance in February 2009 of $700 million 6.90% Senior Notes due 2019 and $300 million 7.85% Senior Notes due 2039 were partially offset by the retirement of the Company's $350 million 6.625% Senior Notes due January 2008 and $200 million 7.38% Senior Notes due October 2008.
Interest expense, net
Interest income decreased $155 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, primarily due to lower interest rates.
Interest income
Other, net
 
 
The Company's tax provision and related tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 were different from the statutory rate primarily due to the recognition of a non-cash benefit related to the reduction of accruals for uncertain
Income tax benefit (expense)
positions resulting from the resolution of certain tax matters and a permanent difference on the gain on the sale of a portion of a subsidiary. The tax provision and tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 reflect these items, which were offset in part by the non-deductible goodwill included within the impairment charges taken in fiscal 2009.
The Company's tax provision and related tax rates for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 were also different from the statutory rate due to the closing of the tax-free exchange transaction with Liberty (See Note 3Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation) and the reversal of previously deferred tax liabilities for DIRECTV and three RSNs. The exchange transaction with Liberty qualified as a tax-free split-off in accordance with Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and, as a result, no income tax provision was recorded against the gain recorded on the transaction.
Net income decreased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the impairment and restructuring charges and revenue decreases noted above. Also contributing to the decrease in net income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was decreased earnings from equity affiliates noted above, as well as the absence of the tax-free gain on the exchange of DIRECTV in fiscal 2008. These decreases were partially offset by the gain on the NDS Transaction and the non-cash tax benefit noted above.
Net (loss) income
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased $63 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net income attributable to the noncontrolling interests of NDS due to the reduction in the Company's ownership interest which resulted in the Company's remaining interest in NDS being accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Also contributing to this decrease were lower results at other majority-owned businesses.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
Segment Analysis:
The following table sets forth the Company's revenues and segment operating income for fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008.
 
** not meaningful
Management believes that total segment operating income is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Total segment operating income provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each of the Company's business segments and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data, although historical results may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences). The following table reconciles total segment operating income to income (loss) before income taxes.
 
(20% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008)
Filmed Entertainment
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Filmed Entertainment segment decreased $763 million, or 11%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The revenue decrease was primarily due to a decrease in worldwide home entertainment revenues from theatrical and television products, as well as a decrease in worldwide theatrical revenues as a result of the difficult comparisons to the revenues from and released in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
The Simpsons Movie
Live Free or Die Hard
The fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 included the worldwide theatrical and home entertainment releases of and the home entertainment and pay television availability of and , the worldwide pay
Taken
Marley & Me,
What Happens in Vegas
Horton Hears a Who!
television availability of and , the worldwide theatrical releases and the related initial releasing costs of and and the initial releasing costs of . The fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 included the successful worldwide theatrical and home entertainment performances of , , and . Also included in fiscal 2008 were the theatrical releases of and as well as their related initial releasing costs.
Juno
The Simpsons Movie
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian
Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs
The Simpsons Movie
Alvin and the Chipmunks
Live Free or Die Hard, Juno
Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer
What Happens in Vegas, The Happening
Horton Hears a Who!,
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Filmed Entertainment segment's Operating income decreased $398 million, or 32%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the revenue decreases noted above, partially offset by lower theatrical releasing costs, decreased amortization of production and participation costs and lower home entertainment marketing and manufacturing costs.
(13% and 16% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Television segment revenues decreased $1,139 million, or 22%, as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the absence of revenues from the Stations sold in July 2008 of $294 million, lower advertising revenues at the television stations owned by the Company due to the general weakness in the advertising markets, with automotive advertising experiencing the largest decrease, and the absence of the Super Bowl and Emmy Awards which were broadcast on FOX during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues were lower MLB post-season advertising revenues due to one less game broadcast and a decrease in NASCAR revenues due to lower ratings and fewer available commercial units. The revenue decreases were partially offset by an increase in political advertising revenues at the television stations owned by the Company.
The Television segment reported a decrease in Operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 of $848 million from the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease in Operating income was primarily the result of the revenue decreases noted above, as well as higher programming costs due to increased entertainment programming license fees and higher sports programming costs at FOX. The costs associated with the return of several programs in fiscal 2009 which were not broadcast in fiscal 2008 due to the Writer's Guild of America strike and the absence of $86 million of operating income from the Stations sold in July 2008. The Operating income decrease for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was partially offset by lower costs for local sports rights due to fewer games broadcast at the television stations owned by the Company.
(20% and 17% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Cable Network Programming
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $521 million, or 9%, as compared to fiscal 2008. This increase was driven by higher net affiliate and advertising revenues at FOX News, the Big Ten Network and FX, as well as higher net affiliate revenues at the Company's international cable operations. The increase for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was partially offset by revenue decreases at the RSNs of $143 million due to the divestiture of three RSNs to Liberty in February 2008.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, FOX News' revenues increased 26% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to an increase in net affiliate and advertising revenues. Net affiliate revenues increased 61% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher average rates per subscriber and lower cable distribution amortization as compared to fiscal 2008. Advertising revenues increased 1% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher pricing and volume. As of June 30, 2009, FOX News reached approximately 97 million Nielsen households.
The Big Ten Network's revenue increase for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was primarily due to a 53% increase in the number of subscribers from fiscal 2008, as the channel gained distribution on all major pay television platforms in the Big Ten markets in fiscal 2009.
FX's revenues increased 10% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, driven by net affiliate and advertising revenue increases. Net affiliate revenues increased 7% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as a result of an increase in average rate per subscriber and the number of subscribers. Advertising revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 increased 9% as compared to fiscal 2008 due to higher pricing and volume. As of June 30, 2009, FX reached approximately 95 million Nielsen households.
The Company's international cable operations' revenues increased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to improved net affiliate revenues, as well as the launch of new international channels. The increase was partially offset by a decline in advertising revenue in the Indian market, lower syndication revenues and unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations.
The RSNs' revenues decreased 2% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, as increases in net affiliate revenues were more than offset by the absence of revenues from the divestiture of three RSNs to Liberty in February 2008 and lower advertising revenues.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Operating income at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $297 million, or 22%, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above. The revenue increases were partially offset by a $224 million increase in operating expenses, primarily due to higher sports rights amortization and higher selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to the launch of new international channels. Also partially offsetting the Operating income increase was lower operating results at the RSNs, primarily due to the absence of $38 million of operating profit from the three RSNs that were divested to Liberty and a settlement of approximately $30 million relating to the termination of a distribution agreement at the international cable operations.
(12% and 11% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, SKY Italia revenues increased $11 million as compared with fiscal 2008, as revenue growth primarily attributed to an increase in the average subscriber base combined with a price increase and higher penetration of premium services was partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. SKY Italia had an increase of approximately 235,000 subscribers during fiscal 2009, which increased SKY Italia's total subscriber base to approximately 4.8 million at June 30, 2009. The total churn for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was approximately 635,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.7 million, as compared to churn of approximately 429,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.4 million in fiscal 2008. Subscriber churn for the period represents the number of SKY Italia subscribers whose service was disconnected during the period. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro resulted in a decrease in revenue of approximately 7% as compared to fiscal 2008.
Average revenue per subscriber ("ARPU") for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was approximately 44, which was consistent with the ARPU for fiscal 2008. SKY Italia calculates ARPU by dividing total subscriber-related revenues for the period by the average subscribers for the period and dividing that amount by the number of months in the period. Subscriber-related revenues are comprised of total subscription revenue, pay-per-view revenue and equipment rental revenue for the period. Average subscribers are calculated for the respective periods by adding the beginning and ending subscribers for the period and dividing by two.
Subscriber acquisition costs per subscriber ("SAC") of approximately 250 in fiscal 2009 decreased as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower marketing costs on a per subscriber basis, as well as lower take-up of a full installation offer. SAC is calculated by dividing total subscriber acquisition costs for a period by the number of gross SKY Italia subscribers added during the period. Subscriber acquisition costs include the cost of the commissions paid to retailers and other distributors, the cost of equipment sold directly by SKY Italia to subscribers and the costs related to installation and acquisition advertising, net of any upfront activation fee. SKY Italia excludes the value of equipment capitalized under SKY Italia's equipment lease program, as well as payments and the value of returned equipment related to disconnected lease program subscribers from subscriber acquisition costs.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, SKY Italia's Operating income decreased $26 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by the revenue increases noted above and unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations. The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2009 was primarily due to higher programming costs as a result of the launch of new channels, higher contractual sports rights amortization and higher fees paid for programming costs as a result of the increase in the number of subscribers. Also contributing to increased costs was increased overall marketing costs to support new promotional offerings. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro resulted in a decrease in Operating income of approximately 4% as compared to fiscal 2008.
(4% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008)
Integrated Marketing Services
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Integrated Marketing Services segment increased $44 million, or 4%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The increase in revenues primarily resulted from higher custom publishing revenue, higher volume of free-standing insert products and higher rates for in-store marketing products, partially offset by a decrease in sales volume for in-store marketing products.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Operating income was consistent with fiscal 2008 as the revenue increases noted above were offset by higher store commissions for in-store marketing products, higher printing and paper costs for free-standing insert products and higher legal costs.
(19% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008)
Newspapers and Information Services
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at the Newspapers and Information Services segment decreased $390 million, or 6%, as compared to fiscal 2008. The revenue decrease for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and Australian dollar on the revenues reported by the Company's U.K. and Australian newspapers and general weakness in these advertising markets as compared to fiscal 2008. This decrease was partially offset by the inclusion of approximately $1 billion of incremental revenue from Dow Jones, which was acquired in December 2007.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and Australian dollar resulted in a decrease of approximately 15% in revenues as compared to fiscal 2008.
Operating income at the Newspapers and Information Services segment decreased $320 million, or 41%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and Australian dollar and the advertising weakness noted above. These decreases were partially offset by the absence of approximately $170 million in depreciation and other costs related to the redundancy program in the United Kingdom in connection with printing press upgrades, which was completed in fiscal 2008. The decrease was also partially offset by the inclusion of incremental Dow Jones operating income of $55 million in fiscal 2009. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound sterling and Australian dollar resulted in a decrease in Operating income of approximately 12% as compared to fiscal 2008.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Australian newspapers' revenues decreased 24% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuation and lower classified and display advertising revenues. Operating income decreased 36% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to the revenue decreases noted above and increased other employee related costs.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the U.K. newspapers' revenues decreased 25% as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuation and lower classified and display advertising revenues across most titles. Operating income decreased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily as a result of unfavorable foreign exchange movements, the revenue decreases noted above and higher newsprint and promotional costs. The Operating income decreases were partially offset by the absence of depreciation on decommissioned printing presses.
(4% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008)
Book Publishing
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, revenues at Book Publishing segment decreased $247 million, or 18%, from fiscal 2008. The decreases were primarily due to lower sales of general books mainly due to the weak retail market, as well as notable sales performances of several titles during fiscal 2008, including by Conn and Hal Iggulden and by Jessica Seinfeld, with fewer comparable titles in fiscal 2009. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, HarperCollins had 165 titles on Bestseller List with 15 titles reaching the number one position. During fiscal 2009, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar resulted in a decrease in revenue of approximately 7% as compared to fiscal 2008.
The Dangerous Book for Boys
Deceptively Delicious
The New York Times
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, Operating income decreased $143 million as compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the revenue decreases noted above and a higher provision for bad debt due to the bankruptcy filing of a major distributor in December 2008.
(8% and 9% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively)
Other
Revenues at the Other segment decreased $610 million, or 20%, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to decreases in revenues from NDS, FIM, Fox Mobile and News Outdoor. The decrease at NDS reflects the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake in February 2009. As a result of the sale, the Company's portion of NDS operating results subsequent to February 5, 2009 is included within Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates. The revenue decrease at FIM was due to decreased advertising revenues at MySpace. News Outdoor's revenues decreased due to lower rates, lower advertising space utilization and unfavorable foreign exchange fluctuations.
Operating results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased $279 million as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the revenue declines noted above, as well as decreased operating income from NDS and FIM. The NDS decline was primarily due to the sale of a portion of the Company's ownership stake as noted above. The decline in FIM operating results was driven by increased costs associated with the launch of MySpace Music and the addition of new features.
Results of Operations  Fiscal 2008 versus Fiscal 2007
The following table sets forth the Company's operating results for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007.
 
** not meaningful
 The Company's revenues increased 15% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The impact of foreign currency translations represented 4% of the revenue increase for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The remaining increase was primarily due to revenue increases at the Newspapers and Information Services, Cable Network Programming, DBS and Other segments. The increase at the Newspapers and Information Services segment was primarily due to the inclusion of revenue from Dow Jones, which was acquired in December 2007. The Cable Network Programming segment increase was primarily due to the consolidation of the National Geographic channels and higher net affiliate revenues. The increase at the DBS segment was primarily due to an increase in subscribers during fiscal 2008. The Other segment increase was primarily due to increased revenue from FIM.
Overview
Operating expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 increased 10% as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The increase was primarily due to incremental costs from acquisitions, the launch of new businesses, higher sports programming costs at the Television segment due to the broadcast of the Super Bowl, which was not broadcast on FOX in fiscal 2007, and foreign exchange movements at the DBS and Newspapers and Information Services segments. The increase in operating expenses was partially offset by the absence of expenses related to the International Cricket Council ("ICC") Cricket World Cup that were included in fiscal 2007 and lower amortization and production costs due to the Writer's Guild of America strike in fiscal 2008.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 increased approximately 29% as compared to fiscal 2007. This increase was primarily due to incremental expenses related to acquisitions, the launch of new businesses, increased employee costs and foreign exchange movements at the Newspapers and Information Services and DBS segments.
Depreciation and amortization increased 37% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to the depreciation of additional property and equipment acquired through acquisitions, higher amortization of finite lived intangible assets due to acquisitions, additional property, plant and equipment placed into service and the impact of foreign exchange movements at the Newspapers and Information Services and DBS segments. Also contributing to the increased depreciation and amortization in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was higher accelerated depreciation at the Newspapers and Information Services segment as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007.
The fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and June 30, 2007 included approximately $19 million and $24 million of restructuring charges, respectively, related to a redundancy program in the United Kingdom in connection with printing press upgrades.
Equity earnings of affiliates decreased $692 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The decrease was primarily a result of lower contributions from BSkyB due to a write-down of its ITV investment in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The Company's portion of the ITV write-down was $485 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Also contributing to the decrease in earnings from equity affiliates was lower contributions from DIRECTV due to the exchange of the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV to Liberty in February 2008. (See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation)
Equity earnings of affiliates 
 
Interest expense, net increased $83 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, primarily due to the issuance of $1 billion 6.15% Senior Notes due 2037 in March 2007 and $1.25 billion 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 in November 2007. This increase was partially offset by the retirement of the Company's $350 million 6.625% Senior Notes due January 2008.
Interest expense, net 
 Interest income decreased $73 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, primarily as a result of lower average cash balances principally due to cash used in the acquisition of Dow Jones.
Interest income
Other, net 
 
 
 The effective tax rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was 25%, which was lower than the statutory rate and the effective tax rate of 34% in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The lower rate in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was due to the tax-free exchange transaction with Liberty and the reversal of previously deferred tax liabilities for DIRECTV and the three of the Company's RSNs which were part of an exchange with Liberty that was completed in February 2008. The exchange transaction with Liberty was qualified as a tax-free split-off in accordance with Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and, as a result, no income tax provision was recorded against the gain recorded on the transaction.
Income tax expense
 Net income increased 58% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The increase in net income was primarily due to an increase in Other, net resulting from the gain recorded on the closing of the Exchange, as well as the Revenue increases noted above. These increases were partially offset by decreased earnings from equity affiliates and increased interest expense noted above.
Net income
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $65 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The increase was primarily due to the noncontrolling interests associated with National Geographic Channel (US), which was consolidated beginning in October 2007, and the international National Geographic entities, which were consolidated beginning in January 2007.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 
Segment Analysis:
The following table sets forth the Company's revenues and segment operating income for fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007.
 
** not meaningful
Management believes that total segment operating income is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business segments. Total segment operating income provides management, investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of each of the Company's business segments and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data, although historical results may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences). The following table reconciles total segment operating income to income before income taxes.
 
(20% and 23% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively)
Filmed Entertainment
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, revenues at the Filmed Entertainment segment decreased $35 million, or 1%, as compared to fiscal 2007. The revenue decrease was primarily due to a decrease in worldwide home entertainment revenues as the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 included the successful worldwide home entertainment performance of with no comparable release in fiscal 2008. This decrease was partially offset by higher worldwide theatrical revenues. The fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 included the successful worldwide theatrical and home entertainment performances of ,
Ice Age: The Meltdown
The Simpsons Movie
Alvin and the
, and . Also included in fiscal 2008 were the theatrical releases of and their related initial releasing costs, as well as the costs relating to the theatrical release of which was released subsequent to June 30, 2008. Additional titles contributing to fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 were the worldwide home entertainment and pay television performances of ,and The fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 included the initial releasing costs of as well as the successful theatrical and home entertainment performances of andAlso contributing to the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 was the worldwide home entertainment and pay television performance of and
Chipmunks
Live Free or Die Hard, Juno,
Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer
What Happens in Vegas, The Happening, Horton Hears a Who!
Meet Dave
Night at the Museum
Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan
Eragon.
Live Free or Die Hard,
Night at the Museum, The Devil Wears Prada, Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan
Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer. 
Ice Age: The Meltdown, X-Men: The Last Stand
Walk the Line.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, the Filmed Entertainment segment's Operating income increased $21 million, or 2%, as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily due to lower releasing and production costs partially offset by the revenue decrease noted above.
(16% and 18% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively)
Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Television segment revenues increased $26 million, or 1%, as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily due to increased advertising revenues from the broadcast of the Super Bowl, which was not broadcast on FOX in fiscal 2007 and higher advertising revenues due to higher pricing for the broadcast of NFL games and higher pricing during FOX prime-time. The revenue increase was partially offset by reduced coverage of the MLB post-season, lower ratings as a result of the absence of several programs due to the Writer's Guild of America strike in fiscal 2008, as well as a decrease in automotive, political, movies and telecommunication advertising revenues at the Company's television stations.
The Television segment reported an increase in Operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 of $167 million, or 19%, as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase in Operating income was a result of the revenue increases noted above, as well as improved operating results at MyNetworkTV due to lower programming costs. Also contributing to the increase in Operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was the absence of the costs associated with reduced coverage of the MLB post-season and lower programming costs associated with the Writer's Guild of America strike. The increases noted above were partially offset by increased sports programming costs due to the broadcast of the Super Bowl.
(17% and 15% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively)
Cable Network Programming
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, revenues at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $1.2 billion, or 26%, as compared to fiscal 2007. This increase was driven by higher net affiliate and advertising revenues at FOX News, FX, and the Company's international cable operations, as well as affiliate revenue growth at the RSNs. Also contributing to the revenue growth was incremental revenues of $356 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 due to the consolidation of the National Geographic channels.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, FOX News' revenues increased 21% as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to an increase in net affiliate and advertising revenues. Net affiliate revenues increased 44% primarily due to higher average rates per subscriber and lower cable distribution amortization as compared to fiscal 2007. Advertising revenues increased 7% as compared to fiscal 2007 due to higher volume and higher pricing. As of June 30, 2008, FOX News reached approximately 93 million Nielsen households.
FX's revenues increased 10% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007, driven by net affiliate and advertising revenue increases. Net affiliate revenues increased 10% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as a result of an increase in average rate per subscriber and the number of subscribers. Advertising revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 increased 6% as compared to fiscal 2007 due to higher pricing and volume. As of June 30, 2008, FX reached approximately 93 million Nielsen households.
The RSNs' revenues increased 10% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to increases in net affiliate revenues, partially offset by lower advertising revenue. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, net affiliate revenues increased 13% as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to higher affiliate rates and a higher number of subscribers. Advertising revenue during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 decreased 3% as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to the divestiture of three RSN's to Liberty.
The Company's international cable operations' revenues increased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to the consolidation of NGC Network Europe LLC ("NGC Europe") which was not consolidated in fiscal 2007. Also contributing to the increase was improved advertising sales and subscriber growth at the Company's other international cable channels.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Operating income at the Cable Network Programming segment increased $176 million, or 15%, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to the increases in revenues noted above. The revenue increases were partially offset by a $991 million increase in operating expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increases in operating expenses were primarily due to increased programming costs resulting from higher entertainment programming costs from movies, syndicated and original shows and the additional costs associated with the launches of the Big Ten Network and FOX Business Network in fiscal 2008. The launches of the Big Ten Network and FOX Business Network resulted in approximately $160 million in operating losses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The consolidation of the National Geographic channels resulted in incremental Operating income of approximately $87 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Also contributing to the increased expenses were higher Selling, general and administrative expenses during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, primarily due to the launch of the new channels.
(11% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007)
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, SKY Italia revenues increased $673 million, or 22%, as compared to fiscal 2007. This revenue growth was primarily driven by a net increase of approximately 366,000 in subscribers during fiscal 2008, which increased SKY Italia's total subscriber base to almost 4.6 million at June 30, 2008. The total churn for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was approximately 429,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.4 million, as compared to churn of approximately 423,000 subscribers on an average subscriber base of 4.0 million in fiscal 2007. Also contributing to the increase in revenues was the weakening of the U.S. dollar which represented 12% of the increase in revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
ARPU for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was approximately 44, which was consistent with the ARPU for fiscal 2007.
SAC of approximately 260 in fiscal 2008 was consistent with that of fiscal 2007, as an increase in upfront activation fees paid by subscribers was substantially offset by an increase in sales commissions during fiscal 2008.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, SKY Italia's operating results improved by $198 million as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to higher fees paid for programming costs as a result of an increase in the number of subscribers, the addition of new channels, as well as an increased number of movie titles. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, the weakening of the U.S. dollar represented 13% of the total improvement in operating results.
(4% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007)
Integrated Marketing Services
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, revenues at the Integrated Marketing Services segment increased $5 million as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase in revenues primarily resulted from an increase in rates and volume of in-store marketing products, partially offset by reduced rates and volume of free-standing insert products.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, Operating income increased $17 million, or 5%, as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase was primarily due to the revenue increases noted above, as well as lower store commissions for in-store marketing products and lower production costs for free-standing insert products.
(19% and 16% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively)
Newspapers and Information Services
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, revenues at the Newspapers and Information Services segment increased $1.8 billion, or 39%, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to the inclusion of Dow Jones beginning December 13, 2007 and revenue growth in Australia and the United Kingdom. During fiscal 2008, the weakening of the U.S. dollar resulted in increases of approximately 7% in revenues as compared to fiscal 2007. Operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 increased $109 million, or 16%, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to the revenue growth noted above and contributions from the acquisition of Dow Jones in December 2007. Dow Jones contributed $1.1 billion of revenue and $45 million of Operating income, including $47 million of Dow Jones related purchase price adjustments, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. During fiscal 2008, the weakening of the U.S. dollar resulted in increases of approximately 12% in Operating income as compared to fiscal 2007.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, the Australian newspapers' revenues increased 27% as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to higher advertising revenues, incremental revenues from the acquisition of the Federal Publishing Company's group of companies in April 2007 and favorable foreign exchange movements. Operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 increased 28% as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to the revenue increases noted above which were partially offset by an increase in employee related costs.
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, the U.K. newspapers' revenues increased 5% as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to favorable foreign exchange movements, as well as higher Internet revenues. Internet revenues increased primarily due to incremental
revenues from acquisitions made in fiscal 2007 and higher Internet advertising revenues. Operating income decreased for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to incremental accelerated depreciation of $45 million recorded for the printing presses and printing facilities that were replaced earlier than originally anticipated.
(4% and 5% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively)
Book Publishing
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, revenues at Book Publishing segment increased $41 million, or 3%, from fiscal 2007, primarily due to distribution revenues earned on the final release of the series book published by Scholastic and the addition of a new distribution client during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. This increase was partially offset by lower revenue ontitles. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, HarperCollins had 165 titles on Bestseller List with 14 titles reaching the number one position.
Harry Potter
Lemony Snicket's Series of Unfortunate Events
The New York Times
Operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was relatively consistent with Operating income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 as the revenue increases noted above were offset by increased distribution, royalty and printing costs.
(9% and 8% of the Company's consolidated revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively)
Other
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, revenues at the Other operating segment increased $702 million, or 31%, as compared to fiscal 2007, primarily due to incremental revenues received from the search technology and services agreement with Google and increased advertising revenues from FIM's Internet sites. The revenue increase was also driven by incremental revenues from the Jamba joint venture which was formed in January 2007, as well as higher revenues from NDS.
Operating results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 increased $109 million as compared to fiscal 2007 primarily due to the revenue increases noted above. The revenue increases at FIM were partially offset by higher costs due to increased development and technical activity, the domestic and international expansion of the business and costs associated with the launch of new business ventures. Also contributing to the increase in operating results was the absence of losses for the ICC Cricket World Cup included in fiscal 2007; however, this was offset by start up losses in conjunction with the Company's Eastern European broadcasting initiatives.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Current Financial Condition
Impact of the Current Economic Environment
The United States and global economies are currently undergoing a period of economic uncertainty, and the related capital markets are experiencing significant disruption. In certain of the markets in which the Company's businesses operate there has been a weakening in the economic climate due to housing market downturns and tightening of global credit markets resulting in pressure on labor markets, retail sales and consumer confidence. These recent economic trends have adversely impacted advertising revenues at the Company's Television, Newspapers and Information Services and Other segments, as well as the retail sales of books and DVDs. Despite the anticipated continuation of these recent economic trends, the Company believes the cash generated internally and available financing will continue to provide the Company sufficient liquidity for the foreseeable future.
Current Financial Condition
The Company's principal source of liquidity is internally generated funds. The Company also has a $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, which expires in May 2012, and has access to various film co-production alternatives to supplement its cash flows. In addition, the Company has access to the worldwide capital markets, subject to market conditions. As of June 30, 2009, the availability under the revolving credit facility was reduced by stand-by letters of credit issued which totaled approximately $70 million. As of June 30, 2009, the Company was in compliance with all of the covenants under the revolving credit facility, and it does not anticipate any violation of such covenants. The Company's internally generated funds are highly dependent upon the state of the advertising markets and public acceptance of its film and television products. A prolonged continuation of these recent economic trends could adversely impact the Company's cash flows from operations which could require the Company to seek other sources of funds.
The principal uses of cash that affect the Company's liquidity position include the following: investments in the production and distribution of new feature films and television programs; the acquisition of and payments under programming rights for entertainment and sports programming; paper purchases; operational expenditures including employee costs; capital expenditures; interest expense; income tax payments; investments in associated entities; dividends; acquisitions; and stock repurchases.
The Company has evaluated, and expects to continue to evaluate, possible acquisitions and dispositions of certain businesses. Such transactions may be material and may involve cash, the Company's securities or the assumption of additional indebtedness.
Total borrowings increased approximately $778 million during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, primarily due to the issuance of $700 million 6.90% Senior Notes due 2019 and $300 million 7.85% Senior Notes due 2039 in February 2009. These increases were partially offset by the retirement of the Company's $200 million 7.38% Senior Notes due October 2008.
As of June 30, 2009, the Company had $2,085 million classified as current borrowings. Included in this amount was $1,608 million of the 0.75% BUCS. The holders of the BUCS have the right to tender the BUCS for redemption on March 15, 2010 for payment of the adjusted liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid distributions and any final period distribution in, at the Company's election, cash, BSkyB ordinary shares, Class A Common Stock or any combination thereof. The Company may redeem the BUCS for cash, BSkyB ordinary shares or a combination thereof, in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 20, 2010, at the adjusted liquidation preference of the BUCS plus any accrued and unpaid distributions and any final period distribution thereon. Also included in this amount is the Company's $250 million 6.75% Senior Debenture due January 2038 which may be put, at the option of the holder, to the Company in January 2010. The Company has $150 million 4.75% Senior Debenture due March 2010 and other bank debt of $77 million due in fiscal 2010. The Company's consolidated cash and cash equivalents of approximately $6.5 billion at June 30, 2009 and internally generated funds are sufficient to meet the Company's foreseeable liquidity needs.
The Company's assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly due to short term liquidity needs. Working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, was $5.2 billion as of June 30, 2009, which was consistent with fiscal 2008. Increases in cash discussed below were offset by an increase in current liabilities, primarily due to $477 million in debt maturities in fiscal 2010, including the $250 million bond putable at the option of the holder. Also included in current borrowings at June 30, 2009 was $1.6 billion of the BUCS, which the holders have the right to tender for redemption on March 15, 2010.
Sources and Uses of Cash  Fiscal 2009 vs. Fiscal 2008
Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 reflects lower profits and lower worldwide theatrical and home entertainment receipts at the Filmed Entertainment segment, lower advertising receipts and higher payments for sports programming at the Television segment, higher sports and entertainment rights payments at the DBS and Cable Network Programming segments and lower advertising receipts at the Newspapers and Information Services segment. Also contributing to this decrease was the absence of the Super Bowl, which was not broadcast on FOX in fiscal 2009, the Stations, which were sold in July 2008, and NDS, which as of the beginning of February 2009 is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. These decreases were partially offset by higher affiliate receipts at the Cable Network Programming segment due to higher average rates per subscriber, lower motion picture production spending at the Filmed Entertainment segment and lower tax payments.
Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in millions):
 
Net cash used in investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 decreased as compared to fiscal 2008, primarily due to a reduction in cash used for acquisitions, which included the Company's acquisitions of Dow Jones and Photobucket and the Company's initial equity investment in Sky Deutschland. Also contributing to the decreased net cash used in investing activities was the $1,011 million net cash proceeds received from the sale of the Stations in July 2008 and $735 million net cash proceeds received from the sale of a portion of the Company's interest in NDS, as well as lower property, plant and equipment purchases which were partially offset by the sale of Gemstar in April 2008.
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 is as follows (in millions):
 
The improvement in financing activities was primarily due to the absence of share repurchases during fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Net cash provided by financing activities for fiscal 2009 reflects the issuance of $700 million 6.90% Senior Notes due 2019 and $300 million 7.85% Senior Notes due 2039 in February 2009, partially offset by the retirement of the Company's $200 million 7.38%
Senior Note due 2008 and dividend payments. In addition to the share repurchases noted above, cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2008 reflects the retirement of the Company's $350 million 6.625% Senior Notes due 2008, the retirement of the $225 million 3.875% notes due 2008 and $131 million in commercial paper which were assumed as part of the Dow Jones acquisition and dividend payments. Partially offsetting the cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2008 was net proceeds of $1,237 million from the issuance of $1,250 million 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 in November 2007.
The total dividends declared related to fiscal 2009 results were $0.12 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In August 2009, the Company declared the final dividend on fiscal 2009 results of $0.06 per share for Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. This together with the interim dividend of $0.06 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock constitute the total dividend relating to fiscal 2009.
Based on the number of shares outstanding as of June 30, 2009, the total aggregate cash dividends expected to be paid to stockholders in fiscal 2010 is approximately $314 million.
Sources and Uses of Cash  Fiscal 2008 vs. Fiscal 2007
Net cash provided by operating activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 is as follows (in millions):
 
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities reflects higher tax payments, higher film production spending and additional payments made under the United Kingdom redundancy program. These decreases were partially offset by higher cash provided by operating activities primarily from the Television, Cable Network Programming and Newspapers and Information Services segments during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. The increase in the Television segment was due to higher receipts from the broadcast of the Super Bowl, which was not broadcast on FOX in fiscal 2007, and lower payments for programming. The increase at the Cable Network Programming segment reflects higher affiliate receipts, and the increase at the Newspapers and Information Services segment reflects higher advertising receipts at the Company's Australian newspapers.
Net cash used in investing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 is as follows (in millions):
 
Net cash used in investing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 was higher than fiscal 2007, primarily due to the Company's acquisitions of Dow Jones in December 2007 and of Photobucket in July 2007. The increase in cash used for acquisitions was partially offset by cash proceeds from the sale of the Company's investment in Gemstar in April 2008.
Net cash used in financing activities for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 is as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash receipts from borrowings, net of repayments, of $434 million, and a decrease in cash received from the issuance of shares. During fiscal 2008, the Company received net proceeds of $1,237 million from the issuance of $1,250 million 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 in November 2007 and retired its $350 million 6.625% Senior Notes due 2008 and its $225 million 3.875% notes due 2008, as well as $131 million in commercial paper assumed as part of the Dow Jones acquisition. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was partially offset by a reduction in cash used for share repurchases of $355 million in fiscal 2007.
The total dividends declared related to fiscal 2008 results were $0.12 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In August 2008, the Company declared the final dividend on fiscal 2008 results of $0.06 per share for Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. This together with the interim dividend of $0.06 per share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock constitute the total dividend relating to fiscal 2008.
Debt Instruments and Guarantees
Debt Instruments
(1)
 
 
Ratings of the Public Debt
The table below summarizes the Company's credit ratings as of June 30, 2009.
 
Revolving Credit Agreement
In May 2007, NAI entered into a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), among NAI as Borrower, the Company as Parent Guarantor, the lenders named therein (the "Lenders"), Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent. The Credit Agreement provides a $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a sub-limit of $600 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. NAI may request an increase in the amount of the credit facility up to a maximum amount of $2.5 billion. Borrowings are in U.S. dollars only, while letters of credit are issuable in U.S. dollars or Euros. The significant terms of the agreement include the requirement that the Company maintain specific leveraging ratios and limitations on secured indebtedness. The Company pays a facility fee of 0.08% regardless of facility usage. The Company pays interest for borrowings at LIBOR plus 0.27% and pays commission fees on letters of credit at 0.27%. The Company pays an additional fee of 0.05% if borrowings under the facility exceed 50% of the committed facility. The interest and fees are based on the Company's current debt rating. The maturity date is in May 2012; however, NAI may request that the Lenders' commitments be renewed for up to two additional one year periods. As of June 30, 2009 approximately $70 million in standby letters of credit, for the benefit of third parties, were outstanding.
Commitments and Guarantees
The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements ("firm commitments") to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. The following table summarizes the Company's material firm commitments as of June 30, 2009.
 
The Company also has certain contractual arrangements in relation to certain investees that would require the Company to make payments or provide funding if certain circumstances occur ("contingent guarantees"). The Company does not expect that these contingent guarantees will result in any material amounts being paid by the Company in the foreseeable future. The timing of the amounts presented in the table below reflect when the maximum contingent guarantees will expire and does not indicate that the Company expects to incur an obligation to make payments during that time frame.
 
 
Under the Company's contract with NFL, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain football games are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2014.
The Company's contracts with NASCAR give the Company rights to broadcast certain races and ancillary content through calendar year 2014.
Under the Company's contract with the BCS, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast the BCS are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2010.
Under the Company's contract with the Big Ten Conference, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain Big Ten Conference sporting events are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2032.
In addition, the Company has certain other local sports broadcasting rights.
 
The table excludes the Company's pension, other postretirement benefits ("OPEB") obligations and the gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing. The Company made primarily voluntary contributions of $214 million and $57 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns and interest rates and statutory requirements. Assuming that actual plan asset returns are consistent with the Company's expected plan returns in fiscal 2010 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company would not be required to make any material contributions to its U.S. pension plans for the immediate future. The Company expects to make a combination of voluntary contributions and statutory contributions of approximately $55 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2010. Payments due to participants under the Company's pension plans are primarily paid out of underlying trusts. Payments due under the Company's OPEB plans are not required to be funded in advance, but are paid as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations, and are principally dependent upon the future cost of retiree medical benefits under the Company's pension plans. The Company expects its OPEB payments to approximate $17 million in fiscal 2010. (See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation for further discussion of the Company's pension and OPEB plans.)
Contingencies
Other than as disclosed in the notes to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation, the Company is party to several purchase and sale arrangements which become exercisable over the next ten years by the Company or the counter-party to the agreement. In the next twelve months, none of these arrangements that become exercisable are material. Purchase arrangements that are exercisable by the counter-party to the agreement, and that are outside the sole control of the Company are accounted for in accordance with EITF No. D-98 "Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities." Accordingly, the fair values of such purchase arrangements are classified in redeemable noncontrolling interests.
The Company experiences routine litigation in the normal course of its business. The Company believes that none of its pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
The Company's operations are subject to tax in various domestic and international jurisdictions and as a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of all pending tax matters and does not currently anticipate that the ultimate resolution of pending tax matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it is important to the Company's financial condition and results and if it requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. The development and selection of these critical accounting policies have been determined by management of the Company and the related disclosures have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. For the Company's summary of significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that the Company may undertake in the future, actual results may differ from the estimates.
Revenue Recognition
 Revenues from distribution of feature films are recognized in accordance with SOP 00-2. Revenues from the theatrical distribution of motion pictures are recognized as they are exhibited and revenues from home video and DVD sales, net of a reserve for estimated returns, together with related costs, are recognized on the date that video and DVD units are made widely available for sale by retailers and all Company-imposed restrictions on the sale of video and DVD units have expired. Revenues from television distribution are recognized when the motion picture or television program is made available to the licensee for broadcast.
Filmed Entertainment
Management bases its estimates of ultimate revenue for each film on the historical performance of similar films, incorporating factors such as the past box office record of the lead actors and actresses, the genre of the film, pre-release market research (including test market screenings) and the expected number of theaters in which the film will be released. Management updates such estimates based on information available on the actual results of each film through its life cycle.
License agreements for the broadcast of theatrical and television product in the broadcast network, syndicated television and cable television markets are routinely entered into in advance of their available date for broadcast. Cash received and amounts billed in connection with such contractual rights for which revenue is not yet recognizable is classified as deferred revenue. Because deferred revenue generally relates to contracts for the licensing of theatrical and television product which have already been produced, the recognition of revenue for such completed product is principally only dependent upon the commencement of the availability period for broadcast under the terms of the related licensing agreement.
Advertising revenue is recognized as the commercials are aired, net of agency commissions. Subscriber fees received from subscribers, cable systems and DBS operators are recognized as revenue in the period that services are provided, net of amortization of cable distribution investments. The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
Television, Cable Network Programming and Direct Broadcast Satellite 
Filmed Entertainment and Television Programming Costs
Accounting for the production and distribution of motion pictures and television programming is in accordance with SOP 00-2, which requires management's judgment as it relates to total revenues to be received and costs to be incurred throughout the life of each program or its license period. These judgments are used to determine the amortization of capitalized filmed entertainment and television programming costs, the expensing of participation and residual costs associated with revenues earned and any fair value adjustments.
In accordance with SOP 00-2, the Company amortizes filmed entertainment and television programming costs using the individual-film-forecast method. Under the individual-film-forecast method, such programming costs are amortized for each film or television program in the ratio that current period actual revenue for such title bears to management's estimated ultimate revenue as of the beginning of the current fiscal year to be recognized over approximately a six year period or operating profits to be realized from all media and markets for such title. Management bases its estimates of ultimate revenue for each film on factors such as historical performance of similar films, the star power of the lead actors and actresses and once released actual results of each film. For each television program, management bases its estimates of ultimate revenue on the performance of the television programming in the initial markets, the existence of future firm commitments to sell additional episodes of the program and the past performance of similar television programs. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its total revenue estimates on a title-by-title basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write-down of the asset to fair value.
The costs of national sports contracts at FOX and for international sports rights agreements are charged to expense based on the ratio of each period's operating profit to estimated total remaining operating profit of the contract. Estimates of total operating profit can change and accordingly, are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted as necessary. Such changes in the future could be material.
The costs of local and regional sports contracts for a specified number of events are amortized on an event-by-event basis, while costs for local and regional sports contracts for a specified season are amortized over the season on a straight-line basis.
Original cable programming is amortized on an accelerated basis. Management regularly reviews, and revises when necessary, its total revenue estimates on a contract basis, which may result in a change in the rate of amortization and/or a write down of the asset to fair value.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of such assets. Changes in circumstances, such as technological advances, changes to the Company's business model or capital strategy, could result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. In those cases, where the Company determines that the useful life of buildings and equipment should be shortened, the Company would depreciate the asset over its revised remaining useful life thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Intangible Assets
The Company has a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, FCC licenses, and other copyright products and trademarks. Intangible assets acquired in business combinations are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is recorded as the difference between the cost of acquiring an entity and the estimated fair values assigned to its tangible and
identifiable intangible net assets and is assigned to one or more reporting units for purposes of testing for impairment. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of intangible assets acquired, their reporting unit, as well as their useful lives can significantly impact net income.
The Company accounts for its business acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting. The total cost of acquisitions is allocated to the underlying net assets, based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the tangible net assets acquired is recorded as intangibles. Amounts recorded as goodwill are assigned to one or more reporting units. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management's judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples, among other items. Identifying reporting units and assigning goodwill to them requires judgment involving the aggregation of business units with similar economic characteristics and the identification of existing business units that benefit from the acquired goodwill.
Carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." The Company's impairment review is based on, among other methods, a discounted cash flow approach that requires significant management judgments. The Company uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual valuations. Indicators such as unexpected adverse economic factors, unanticipated technological change or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts, may signal that an asset has become impaired.
The Company uses the direct valuation method to value identifiable intangibles for purchase accounting and impairment testing. The direct valuation method used for FCC licenses requires, among other inputs, the use of published industry data that are based on subjective judgments about future advertising revenues in the markets where the Company owns television stations. This method also involves the use of management's judgment in estimating an appropriate discount rate reflecting the risk of a market participant in the U.S. broadcast industry. The resulting fair values for FCC licenses are sensitive to these long-term assumptions and any variations to such assumptions could result in an impairment to existing carrying values in future periods and such impairment could be material.
The Company's goodwill impairment reviews are determined using a two-step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit by primarily using a discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation approach methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, perpetual growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The cash flows employed in the analyses are based on the Company's estimated outlook and various growth rates have been assumed for years beyond the long-term business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units. In assessing the reasonableness of its determined fair values, the Company evaluates its results against other value indicators, such as comparable public company trading values. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment review is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment review is required to be performed to estimate the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
The assumptions utilized in the Company's impairment reviews take into account the weakening of the economies in the markets where the Company's businesses operate. The potential increase in the goodwill impairment charge resulting from a 10% adverse change in the estimated value of the impaired reporting units would be approximately $1.0 billion. The potential increase in the FCC licenses impairment charge resulting from a 10% adverse change in the assumptions above would be approximately $480 million.
Income Taxes
The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company computes its annual tax rate based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to it in the various jurisdictions in which it earns income. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's tax expense and in evaluating its tax positions including evaluating uncertainties under FIN 48.
The Company records valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and ongoing tax planning strategies. Should a change in circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years,
the Company would adjust related valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or charge to income.
Employee Costs
The measurement and recognition of costs of the Company's various pension and other postretirement benefit plans require the use of significant management judgments, including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, future compensation and other actuarial assumptions.
In June 2007, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). SFAS No. 158 requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the fiscal year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. (See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation)
The following table summarizes the incremental effects of the initial adoption of SFAS No. 158 on the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2007:
 
The Company maintains defined benefit pension plans covering a significant number of its employees and retirees. The primary plans have been closed to employees hired after January 1, 2008. For financial reporting purposes, net periodic pension expense (income) is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including a discount rate for plan obligations and an expected rate of return on plan assets. The Company considers current market conditions, including changes in investment returns and interest rates, in making these assumptions. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, the Company considered the pension portfolio's past average rate of returns, and future return expectations of the various asset classes. The expected long-term rate of return is based on an asset allocation assumption of 54% equities, 38% fixed-income securities and 8% in cash and other investments.
The discount rate reflects the market rate for high-quality fixed-income investments on the Company's annual measurement date of June 30 and is subject to change each fiscal year. The discount rate assumptions used to account for pension and other postretirement benefit plans reflect the rates at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. The rate was determined by matching the Company's expected benefit payments for the primary plans to a hypothetical yield curve developed using a portfolio of several hundred high quality non-callable corporate bonds.
The key assumptions used in developing the Company's fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 net periodic pension expense (income) for its plans consist of the following:
 
The weighted average discount rate is volatile from year to year because it is determined based upon the prevailing rates in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia as of the measurement date. The Company will utilize a weighted average discount rate of 7.0% in calculating the fiscal 2010 net periodic pension expense for its plans. The Company will continue to use a weighted average long-term rate of return of 7.0% for fiscal 2010 based principally on a combination of asset mix and historical experience of actual plan returns. The accumulated net losses on the Company's pension plans at June 30, 2009 were $663 million which increased from $448 million at June 30, 2008. This increase of $215 million was due primarily to the recent performance of the global equity markets partially offset by a higher discount rate. Higher discount rates decrease the present values of benefit obligations and reduce the Company's accumulated net loss and also decrease subsequent-year pension expense; lower discount rates increase present values of benefits obligations and increase the Company's deferred losses and also increase subsequent-year pension expense. The net accumulated losses at June 30, 2009 were primarily a result of deferred asset losses. These deferred losses are being systematically recognized in future net periodic pension expense in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions" ("SFAS No. 87"). Unrecognized losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the plans projected benefit obligation are recognized over the average future service of the plan participants.
The Company made contributions of $214 million, $57 million and $67 million to its pension plans in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These were primarily voluntary contributions made to improve the funded status of the plans which were impacted by the economic conditions noted above. Future plan contributions are dependent upon actual plan asset returns, statutory requirements and interest rate movements. Assuming that actual plan returns are consistent with the Company's expected plan returns in fiscal 2010 and beyond, and that interest rates remain constant, the Company would not be required to make any material statutory contributions to its primary U.S. pension plans for the immediate future. The Company will continue to make voluntary contributions as necessary to improve funded status.
Changes in net periodic pension expense may occur in the future due to changes in the Company's expected rate of return on plan assets and discount rate resulting from economic events. The following table highlights the sensitivity of the Company's pension obligations and expense to changes in these assumptions, assuming all other assumptions remain constant:
 
Net periodic pension expense for the Company's pension plans is expected to be approximately $152 million in fiscal 2010. The increase is primarily due to the amortization of deferred asset losses.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of News Corporation for discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

Exhibit 99.4
 
NEWS CORPORATION
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of News Corporation:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of News Corporation as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows, and equity and other comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of News Corporation at June 30, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Notes 2 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been retrospectively adjusted for the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement No. 160 ("SFAS No 160"), Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  an amendment of ARB No. 51. Also as discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertain tax positions, effective July 1, 2007, and pension and other post-retirement obligations, effective June 30, 2007.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), News Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 12, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
New York, New York
August 12, 2009,
except for Notes 19 and 24,
as to which the date is February 12, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
News Corporation and its subsidiaries (together, "News Corporation" or the "Company") is a Delaware corporation. News Corporation is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in eight segments: Filmed Entertainment, which principally consists of the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production of original television programming worldwide; Television, which principally consists of the broadcasting of network programming in the United States and the operation of 27 full power broadcast television stations, including nine duopolies, in the United States (of these stations, 17 are affiliated with the Fox Broadcasting Company ("FOX") and ten are affiliated with MyNetworkTV); Cable Network Programming, which principally consists of the production and licensing of programming distributed through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators primarily in the United States, Latin America, Europe and Asia; Direct Broadcast Satellite Television, which consists of the distribution of basic and premium programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in Italy; Integrated Marketing Services, which principally consists of the publication of free-standing inserts, which are promotional booklets containing consumer offers distributed through insertion in local Sunday newspapers in the United States, and the provision of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers in the United States and Canada; Newspapers and Information Services, which principally consists of the publication of four national newspapers in the United Kingdom, the publication of approximately 146 newspapers in Australia, the publication of a metropolitan newspaper and a national newspaper (with international editions) in the United States and the provision of information services; Book Publishing, which principally consists of the publication of English language books throughout the world; and Other, which includes Fox Interactive Media ("FIM"), which operates the Company's Internet activities, and News Outdoor Group ("News Outdoor"), an advertising business which offers display advertising primarily in outdoor locations throughout Russia and Eastern Europe.
NOTE 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of all majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries. In addition, the Company evaluates its relationships with other entities to identify whether they are variable interest entities as defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. ("FIN") 46R, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin ("ARB") No. 51" ("FIN 46R"), and to assess whether it is the primary beneficiary of such entities. If the determination is made that the Company is the primary beneficiary, then that entity is consolidated in accordance with FIN 46R. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation, including the intercompany portion of transactions with equity method investees.
The effects of any changes in the Company's ownership interest resulting from the issuance of equity capital by consolidated subsidiaries or equity investees to unaffiliated parties and certain other equity transactions recorded by consolidated subsidiaries or equity investees are accounted for as capital transactions pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 51, "Accounting for the Sales of Stock of a Subsidiary." Deferred taxes generally have not been recorded on such capital transactions, as such temporary differences would, in most instances, be recovered in a tax-free manner.
Certain fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2009 presentation.
The Company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday nearest to June 30. Fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 were comprised of 52 weeks and ended on June 28, 2009, June 29, 2008 and July 1, 2007, respectively. For convenience purposes, the Company continues to date its financial statements as of June 30.
Use of estimates
The preparation of the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less.
 
 
Concentration of credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk.
Receivables, net
Receivables, net are presented net of an allowance for returns and doubtful accounts, which is an estimate of amounts that may not be collectible. In determining the allowance for returns, management analyzes historical returns, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of the Company's products. Based on this information, management reserves a percentage of each dollar of product sales that provide the customer with the right of return. The allowance for doubtful accounts is estimated based on historical experience, receivable aging, current economic trends and specific identification of certain receivables that are at risk of not being paid. In light of the recent economic downturn in the domestic and global economies, the Company's estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of its receivables have become subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods.
Receivables, net consist of:
 
Inventories
Filmed Entertainment Costs:
In accordance with Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 00-2, "Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films" ("SOP 00-2"), Filmed entertainment costs include capitalized production costs, overhead and capitalized interest costs, net of any amounts received from outside investors. These costs, as well as participations and talent residuals, are recognized as operating expenses on an individual film or network series basis in the ratio that fiscal 2009's gross revenues bear to management's estimate of total remaining ultimate gross revenues. Television production costs incurred in excess of the amount of revenue contracted for each episode in the initial market are expensed as incurred on an episode-by-episode basis. Estimates for initial syndication and basic cable revenues are not included in the estimated lifetime revenues of network series until such sales are probable. Television production costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of secondary markets are capitalized and amortized. Marketing costs and development costs under term deals are charged as operating expenses as incurred. Development costs for projects not produced are written-off at the earlier of the time the decision is made not to develop the story or after three years.
Filmed entertainment costs are stated at the lower of unamortized cost or estimated fair value on an individual motion picture or television product basis. Revenue forecasts for both motion pictures and television products are continually reviewed by management and revised when warranted by changing conditions. When estimates of total revenues and other events or changes in circumstances indicate that a motion picture or television production has a fair value that is less than its unamortized cost, a loss is recognized currently for the amount by which the unamortized cost exceeds the film or television production's fair value.
Programming Costs:
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 63, "Financial Reporting by Broadcasters," costs incurred in acquiring program rights or producing programs for the Television, DBS and Cable Network Programming segments are capitalized and amortized over the license period or projected useful life of the programming. Program rights and the related liabilities are recorded at the gross amount of the liabilities when the license period has begun, the cost of the program is determinable and the program is accepted and available for airing. Television broadcast network and original cable programming are amortized on an accelerated basis. The Company has single and multi-year contracts for broadcast rights of programs and sporting events. At the
 
 
inception of these contracts and at least annually, the Company evaluates the recoverability of the costs associated therewith, using aggregate estimated advertising revenues directly associated with the program material and related expenses. Where an evaluation indicates that a multi-year contract will result in an ultimate loss, additional amortization is provided. The costs of national sports contracts at FOX are charged to expense based on the ratio of each period's operating profits to estimated total remaining operating profit of the contract. Estimates of total operating profit can change and accordingly, are reviewed periodically and amortization is adjusted as necessary. Such changes in the future could be material.
The costs of local and regional sports contracts for a specified number of events, are amortized on an event-by-event basis while costs for local and regional sports contracts for a specified season, are amortized over the season on a straight-line basis.
Inventories for other divisions are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is primarily determined by the first in, first out average cost method or by specific identification.
Investments
Investments in and advances to equity or joint ventures in which the Company has significant influence, but less than a controlling voting interest, are accounted for using the equity method. Significant influence is generally presumed to exist when the Company owns an interest of approximately 20% to 50% and exercises significant influence. In certain circumstances, investments for which the Company owns more than 50% but does not control policy decisions, would be accounted for by the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting the Company includes its investment and amounts due to and from its equity method investments in its consolidated balance sheets. The Company's consolidated statements of operations include the Company's share of the investees' earnings (losses) and the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows include all cash received from or paid to the investee.
The difference between the Company's investment and its share of the fair value of the underlying net assets of the investee is first allocated to either finite-lived intangibles or indefinite-lived intangibles and the balance is attributed to goodwill. The Company follows SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS No. 142"), which requires that equity method finite-lived intangibles be amortized over their estimated useful life while indefinite-lived intangibles and goodwill are not amortized.
Investments in which the Company has no significant influence (generally less than a 20% ownership interest) or does not exert significant influence are designated as available-for-sale investments if readily determinable market values are available. If an investment's fair value is not readily determinable, the Company accounts for its investment at cost. The Company reports available-for-sale investments at fair value based on quoted market prices. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investments are included in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes and other adjustments until the investment is sold or considered impaired. Dividends and other distributions of earnings from available-for-sale investments and cost investments are included in Interest income in the consolidated statements of operations when declared.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over an estimated useful life of two to 50 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter of their useful lives or the life of the lease. Costs associated with the repair and maintenance of property are expensed as incurred. Changes in circumstances, such as technological advances or changes to the Company's business model or capital strategy could result in the actual useful lives differing from the Company's estimates. In those cases where the Company determines that the useful life of buildings and equipment should be shortened, the Company would depreciate the asset over its revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Goodwill and intangible assets
The Company has a significant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, film and television libraries, Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") licenses, newspaper mastheads, distribution networks, publishing rights and other copyright products and trademarks. Goodwill is recorded as the difference between the cost of acquiring entities and amounts assigned to their tangible and identifiable intangible net assets. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of FCC licenses, are tested annually for impairment or earlier if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below its carrying amount. Intangible assets with finite lives, are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives. The carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested at least annually for
 
 
impairment, or when circumstances indicate that a possible impairment may exist. This impairment assessment of indefinite-lived intangibles compares the fair value of these intangible assets to their carrying value.
The Company's goodwill impairment reviews are determined using a two-step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment review is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment review is required to be performed to estimate the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
Asset impairments
Investments
Equity method investments are regularly reviewed for impairment by initially comparing their fair value to their respective carrying amounts each quarter. The Company determines the fair value of its public company investments by reference to their publicly traded stock price. With respect to private company investments, the Company makes its estimate of fair value by considering other available information, including recent investee equity transactions, discounted cash flow analyses, estimates based on comparable public company operating multiples and, in certain situations, balance sheet liquidation values. If the fair value of the investment has dropped below the carrying amount, management considers several factors when determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in market value has occurred, including the length of the time and extent to which the market value has been below cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, the intent and ability of the Company to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value and other factors influencing the fair market value, such as general market conditions.
The Company regularly reviews available-for-sale investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related market value, the duration of the market decline, the Company's ability to hold until recovery and the financial strength and specific prospects of the issuer of the security.
The Company regularly reviews investments accounted for at cost for other-than-temporary impairment based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related estimated fair value, the duration of the estimated fair value decline, the Company's ability to hold until recovery and the financial strength and specific prospects of the issuer of the security.
Long-lived assets
SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," ("SFAS No. 144") requires that the Company periodically review the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets, to determine whether current events or circumstances indicate that such carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of the asset is greater than the expected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by such asset, an impairment adjustment is recognized if the carrying value of such assets exceeds their fair value. The Company generally measures fair value by considering sale prices for similar assets or by discounting estimated future cash flows using an appropriate discount rate. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate the fair value of assets, accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. Assets to be disposed of are carried at the lower of their financial statement carrying amount or fair value less their costs to sell.
Financial instruments
The carrying value of the Company's financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, cost investments and long-term borrowings, approximate fair value. The fair value of financial instruments is generally determined by reference to market values resulting from trading on a national securities exchange or in an over-the-counter market. Derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, such as exchangeable securities, are separated into their host and derivative financial instrument components. The derivative component is recorded at its estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheets with changes in estimated fair value recorded in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations.
The TOPrS warrants and the BUCS are exercisable/convertible into ordinary shares of British Sky Broadcasting plc ("BSkyB"). The Company used the following assumptions to determine the fair value of the TOPrS warrants as of June 30, 2009 and 2008: Stock
 
 
price: $7.42 and $9.27; Exercise price: $10.80; Historical volatility: 18.9% and 23.8%; Risk free rates: 2.83% and 5.18%; Expected term: 7.38 years and 8.38 years; and Dividend yield: 2.4% and 2.2%, respectively.
In determining the fair value of the BUCS conversion feature, the Company calculates the difference between (i) the average of the bid and asked prices for the BUCS as of each valuation date and (ii) the estimated value of a "straight" bond (i.e., no exchange feature) using the period from the valuation date to the date of the first put. Key assumptions as of June 30, 2009 and 2008 used to estimate the value of the straight bond were as follows: News Corporation credit spreads: 73bps and 40bps; and Risk-free rates: 1.33% and 3.45%, respectively.
Guarantees
The Company follows Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing certain guarantees.
Revenue recognition
Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the fees are fixed or determinable, the product or service has been delivered and collectability is reasonably assured. The Company considers the terms of each arrangement to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.
Filmed Entertainment:
Revenues are recognized in accordance with SOP 00-2. Revenues from the distribution of motion pictures are recognized as they are exhibited, and revenues from home entertainment sales, net of a reserve for estimated returns, are recognized on the date that DVD units are made available for sale by retailers and all Company-imposed restrictions on the sale of DVD units have expired.
License agreements for the broadcast of theatrical and television product in the broadcast network, syndicated television and cable television markets are routinely entered into in advance of their available date for broadcast. Cash received and amounts billed in connection with such contractual rights for which revenue is not yet recognizable is classified as deferred revenue. Because deferred revenue generally relates to contracts for the licensing of theatrical and television products which have already been produced, the recognition of revenue for such completed product is principally only dependent upon the commencement of the availability period for broadcast under the terms of the related licensing agreement.
Television, Cable Network Programming and DBS:
Advertising revenue is recognized as the commercials are aired. Subscriber fees received from cable systems and DBS operators for cable network programming are recognized as revenue in the period services are provided. DBS subscription and pay-per-view revenues are recognized when programming is broadcast to subscribers, while fees for equipment rental are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
The Company classifies the amortization of cable distribution investments (capitalized fees paid to a cable or DBS operator to facilitate the launch of a cable network) against revenue in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") No. 01-09, "Accounting for the Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or a Reseller of the Vendor's Products." The Company defers the cable distribution investments and amortizes the amounts on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
Newspapers and Information Services, Integrated Marketing Services and Book Publishing
Advertising revenue from newspapers and integrated marketing services is recognized when the advertisements are published. Subscription revenues from the Company's print and online publications and electronic information services is recognized as earned, pro rata on a per-issue basis, over the subscription period. Revenues earned from book publishing are recognized upon passing of control to the buyer.
Sales returns
Consistent with industry practice, certain of the Company's products, such as home entertainment products, books and newspapers, are sold with the right of return. The Company records, as a reduction of revenue, the estimated impact of such returns. In
 
 
determining the estimate of product sales that will be returned, management analyzes historical returns, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of the Company's product. Based on this information, management reserves a percentage of each dollar of product sales that provide the customer with the right of return.
Subscriber acquisition costs
Subscriber acquisition costs in the DBS segment primarily consist of amounts paid for third-party customer acquisitions, which consist of the cost of commissions paid to authorized retailers and dealers for subscribers added through their respective distribution channels and the cost of hardware and installation subsidies for subscribers. All costs, including hardware, installation and commissions, are expensed upon activation. However, where legal ownership is retained in the equipment, the cost of the equipment is capitalized and depreciated over the useful life. Additional components of subscriber acquisition costs include the cost of print, radio and television advertising, which are expensed as incurred.
Advertising expenses
The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred, including advertising expenses for theatrical and television product in accordance with SOP 00-2. Advertising expenses recognized totaled $2.5 billion for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 and $2.4 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007.
Translation of foreign currencies
Income and expense accounts of foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are translated into U.S. dollars using the current rate method, whereby trading results are converted at the average rate of exchange for the period and assets and liabilities are converted at the closing rates on the period end date. The resulting translation adjustments are accumulated as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are included in income for the period.
Capitalization of interest
Interest cost on funds invested in major projects, primarily theatrical productions, with substantial development and construction phases are capitalized until production or operations commence. Once production or operations commence, the interest costs are expensed as incurred. Capitalized interest is amortized over future periods on a basis consistent with that of the project to which it relates. Total interest capitalized was $55 million, $44 million and $24 million, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Amortization of capitalized interest for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $50 million, $33 million and $34 million, respectively.
Income taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"). SFAS 109 requires an asset and liability approach for financial accounting and reporting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability approach, deferred taxes are provided for the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Valuation allowances are established where management determines that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Deferred taxes have not been provided on the cumulative undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries to the extent amounts are expected to be reinvested indefinitely.
On July 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"), which did not have a material impact to the Company's liability for unrecognized tax benefits.
The effects of the initial adoption of FIN 48 on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2007 included an increase in Other liabilities of approximately $1.2 billion offset by a similar reduction in deferred income taxes as of July 1, 2007.
Earnings per share
Prior to fiscal 2008, Net income available to the Company's common stockholders was allocated between the Company's two classes of common stock, Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class A Common Stock") and Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Class B Common Stock"). The allocation between classes was based upon the two-class method. Under the two-class method, earnings per share for each class of common stock was allocated according to dividends declared and participation
 
 
rights in undistributed earnings. Subsequent to the final fiscal 2007 dividend, shares of Class A Common Stock no longer carry the right to a greater dividend than shares of Class B Common Stock and; therefore, Net income is allocated equally to Class A and Class B stockholders. Accordingly, since the apportionment of earnings has been eliminated as required by the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company has presented the earnings of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock as a single class since fiscal 2008. (See Note 20  Earnings Per Share)
Basic earnings per share for the Class A and Class B Common Stock is calculated by dividing net income or loss by the weighted average number of shares of Class A and Class B Common Stock outstanding. Diluted earnings per share for Class A and Class B Common Stock is calculated similarly, except that the calculation includes the dilutive effect of the assumed issuance of shares issuable under the Company's equity-based compensation plans and the dilutive effect of convertible securities.
Comprehensive income
The Company follows SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," for the reporting and display of comprehensive income. The components of accumulated comprehensive income were as follows:
 
 
Equity based compensation
The Company accounts for share based payments in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R requires that the cost resulting from all share-based payment transactions be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. SFAS 123R establishes fair value as the measurement objective in accounting for share-based payment arrangements and requires all companies to apply a fair-value-based measurement method in accounting for generally all share-based payment transactions with employees.
Pension and other postretirement benefits
In June 2007, the Company adopted SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"). SFAS No. 158 requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan (other than a multiemployer plan) as an asset
 
 
or liability in its statement of financial position and to recognize changes in that funded status in the fiscal year in which the changes occur through comprehensive income. (See Note 17Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits)
The following table summarizes the incremental effects of the initial adoption of SFAS No. 158 on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2007:
 
Derivatives
SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"), requires every derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value as either an asset or a liability (See Note 7  Fair Value). SFAS No. 133 also requires that changes in the fair value of recorded derivatives be recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
The Company uses financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges to hedge its limited exposures to foreign currency exchange risks associated with the costs for producing or acquiring films and television programming abroad. All cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. As of June 30, 2009 and 2008, the notional amount of foreign exchange forward contracts with foreign currency risk was $394.8 million and $34.2 million, respectively, and the net unrealized gain was approximately $3.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively. The potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments for a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $32.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The effective changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income with foreign currency translation adjustments. Amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item is recognized in earnings. If derivatives are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are recorded in earnings as Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations. (See Note 11Exchangeable Securities.)
Recent accounting pronouncements
On July 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157") for its financial assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands the required disclosures about fair value measurements (See Note 7  Fair Value). SFAS No. 157 currently applies to the fair value measurements of financial instruments and recurring fair value measurements of non-financial assets and liabilities. On July 1, 2009, the Company adopted the remaining provisions of SFAS No. 157, which applies to all fair value measurements including non-recurring measurements of non-financial assets and liabilities, such as measurement of potential impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets, other long-lived assets and non-financial assets held by a pension plan. It also applies to fair value measurements of non-financial assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. The Company's adoption of the additional provisions of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
On July 1, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial LiabilitiesIncluding an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115" ("SFAS No.159"). SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings for each reporting period. The Company's adoption of SFAS No. 159 on July 1, 2008 did not have any effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements as the Company did not elect the fair value measurement option for any eligible items.
 
 
On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133" ("SFAS No. 161"), which requires enhanced disclosures related to an entity's derivative and hedging activities (See Note 7Fair Value). The Company's adoption of SFAS No. 161 did not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(revised 2007), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141R"). SFAS No. 141R significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas, including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs, in-process research and development and restructuring costs. In addition, under SFAS No. 141R, changes in an acquired entity's deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. SFAS No. 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted SFAS No. 141R on July 1, 2009. This standard changes the Company's accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective basis.
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51" ("SFAS No. 160"). SFAS No. 160 changes the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which are recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This new consolidation method significantly changed the accounting for transactions with minority interest holders. SFAS No. 160 was effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted SFAS No. 160 on July 1, 2009. SFAS No. 160 required the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing minority interests to be applied retrospectively. The Company's financial statements reflect the presentation and disclosure requirements for all periods presented. All other requirements of SFAS No. 160 are to be applied prospectively.
In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") SFAS No. 142-3 "Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets" ("FSP SFAS No. 142-3"). FSP SFAS No. 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognizable intangible asset under SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS No. 142"). FSP SFAS No. 142-3 is intended to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognizable intangible asset under SFAS No. 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141. FSP SFAS No. 142-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company adopted FSP SFAS No. 142-3 on July 1, 2009. This position changes the Company's determination of useful lives for intangible assets on a prospective basis.
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167, "Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)" ("SFAS No. 167"). SFAS No. 167 changes the approach to determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity ("VIE") and requires companies to regularly assess whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. SFAS No. 167 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 167 beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The Company is currently evaluating what effects, if any, the adoption of SFAS No. 167 will have on the Company's future results of operations and financial condition.
NOTE 3. ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSALS AND OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Fiscal 2009 Transactions
Acquisitions
In October 2008, the Company purchased VeriSign Inc.'s ("VeriSign") noncontrolling interest of the Jamba joint venture for approximately $193 million in cash, increasing the Company's interest to 100%. During fiscal 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to Jamba's goodwill and finite-lived intangible assets. (See Note 9  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets)
In January 2009, the Company and Asianet TV Holdings Private Limited ("Asianet") formed a venture ("Star Jupiter") to provide general entertainment channels in southern India. The Company paid approximately $235 million in cash and assumed net debt of approximately $20 million for a controlling interest in four of Asianet's channels which were combined with one of the Company's existing channels. The Company has a controlling interest in this new venture and, accordingly, began consolidating the results in January 2009.
The aforementioned acquisitions were all accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141"). In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the excess purchase price that has been allocated or has been preliminarily allocated to goodwill is not being amortized for all of the acquisitions noted above. Where the allocation of the excess purchase price is not final, the amount allocated to goodwill is subject to change upon completion of final valuations of certain assets and liabilities. A future
 
 
reduction in goodwill for additional value to be assigned to identifiable finite-lived intangible assets or tangible assets could reduce future earnings as a result of additional amortization.
Disposals
In July 2008, the Company completed the sale of eight of its owned-and-operated FOX network affiliated television stations (the "Stations") for approximately $1 billion in cash. The Stations included: WJW in Cleveland, OH; KDVR in Denver, CO; KTVI in St. Louis, MO; WDAF in Kansas City, MO; WITI in Milwaukee, WI; KSTU in Salt Lake City, UT; WBRC in Birmingham, AL; and WGHP in Greensboro, NC. In connection with the transaction, the Stations entered into new affiliation agreements with the Company to receive network programming and assumed existing contracts with the Company for syndicated programming. No portion of the sale proceeds were allocated to the new network affiliation agreements as they were negotiated at fair value and are consistent with similar pre-existing contracts with other third party-owned FOX affiliated stations. In addition, the Company recorded a gain of approximately $232 million in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
In November 2008, the Company sold its ownership stake in a Polish television broadcaster to the remaining shareholders. The Company recognized a net loss of approximately $100 million on the disposal which was included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
Other transactions
In February 2009, the Company, two newly incorporated subsidiaries of funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP (the "Permira Newcos") and the Company's then majority-owned, publicly-held subsidiary, NDS Group plc ("NDS"), completed a transaction pursuant to which all issued and outstanding NDS Series A ordinary shares, including those represented by American Depositary Shares traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market, were acquired for per-share consideration of $63 in cash (the "NDS Transaction"). As part of the transaction, approximately 67% of the NDS Series B ordinary shares held by the Company were exchanged for $63 per share in a mix of approximately $1.5 billion in cash, which included $780 million of cash retained upon the deconsolidation of NDS, and a $242 million vendor note. Immediately prior to the consummation of the NDS Transaction, the Company owned approximately 72% of NDS through its ownership of all of the outstanding NDS Series B ordinary shares and, accordingly, included the results of NDS in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. As a result of the transaction, NDS ceased to be a public company and the Permira Newcos and the Company now own approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively. The Company's remaining interest in NDS is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. A gain of $1.2 billion was recognized on the sale of the Company's interest and is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
Fiscal 2008 Transactions
Acquisitions
In July 2007, the Company acquired Photobucket, a web-based provider of photo- and video-sharing services, for a total purchase price of approximately $287 million, of which $237 million was in cash and $50 million was in deferred consideration. The initial $25 million of deferred consideration was paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2009 and the remaining $25 million was paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2010.
On December 13, 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of Dow Jones & Company, Inc. ("Dow Jones") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 31, 2007, by and among the Company, Ruby Newco LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Ruby Newco"), Dow Jones and Diamond Merger Sub Corporation, as amended (the "Merger Agreement"). Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Dow Jones common stock was converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder, either (x) $60.00 in cash or (y) 2.8681 Class B common units of Ruby Newco. Each Class B common unit of Ruby Newco is convertible into a share of News Corporation Class A Common Stock. The consideration for the acquisition was approximately $5,700 million which consisted of: $5,150 million in cash, assumed net debt of approximately $330 million and approximately $200 million in equity instruments. The results of Dow Jones have been included in the Company's consolidated statements of operations from December 13, 2007.
As part of the Dow Jones acquisition, the Company assumed total debt of $378 million which consisted of: 3.875% notes due 2008 in the amount of $225 million, $131 million in commercial paper and a $22 million variable interest rate note.
 
 
In addition, in December 2007, the Company issued approximately 8 million Class B common units of Ruby Newco, approximately 7 million stock options and approximately 500,000 restricted stock units ("RSUs") over Class A Common Stock. The total fair value of these instruments was approximately $200 million. As of June 30, 2009, approximately 7.7 million Class B common units of Ruby Newco had been converted into shares of Class A Common Stock.
The acquisition of Dow Jones was effected in December 2007 to position the Company as a leader in the financial news and information market and to enhance its ability to adapt to future challenges and opportunities within the Newspapers and Information Services segment and across the Company's other related business segments.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total Dow Jones purchase price is allocated to Dow Jones net tangible and intangible assets based upon Dow Jones' estimated fair value as of the date of completion of the acquisition. Based upon the purchase price and the valuation performed, the purchase price allocation is as follows (in millions):
 
The Company allocated approximately $700 million to amortizable intangible assets, primarily consisting of subscriber relationship intangible assets. The pattern of economic benefits to be derived from certain amortizable intangible assets is estimated to be greater in the initial period of ownership. Accordingly, amortization expense is recognized on an accelerated basis over the remaining weighted-average useful life of 25 years. The Company also allocated approximately $1,700 million to trade names, which will not be amortized as they have an indefinite remaining useful life based primarily on their market position and the Company's plans for continued indefinite use. Further, approximately $4,300 million was allocated to goodwill, which represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The goodwill is not being amortized in accordance with SFAS No. 142, and is not deductible for tax purposes. Upon the completion of the final valuation in December 2008, all of the goodwill was allocated to the Newspapers and Information Services segment. During fiscal 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge relating to the Dow Jones goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $2.8 billion which is not reflected in the table above. (See Note 9  Goodwill and Intangible Assets)
The aforementioned acquisitions were all accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 141.
Disposals
In June 2008, the Company sold a parcel of land it owned in the United Kingdom, for total consideration of $163 million. The consideration at closing was comprised of $91 million in cash and a $72 million note, secured by the land, payable in three equal annual installments, the first of which was received in June 2009. The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $126 million on the transaction which is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
 
 
Share Exchange Agreement
In February 2008, the Company closed the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement (the "Share Exchange Agreement") with Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty"). Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, Liberty exchanged its entire interest in the Company's common stock (approximately 325 million shares of Class A Common Stock and 188 million shares of Class B Common Stock) for 100% of the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, whose holdings consisted of the Company's approximate 41% interest (approximately 470 million shares) in The DIRECTV Group, Inc. ("DIRECTV") constituting the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV, three of the Company's Regional Sports Networks ("RSNs") (FSN Northwest, FSN Pittsburgh and FSN Rocky Mountain) (the "Three RSNs") and approximately $625 million in cash (the "Exchange"). The Exchange resulted in the divestiture of the Company's entire interest in DIRECTV and the Three RSNs to Liberty. The Company measured the fair market value of the shares received from Liberty at the February 27, 2008 New York Stock Exchange closing price of the Class A Common Stock (NWS-A) and Class B Common Stock (NWS) as the value of the shares was more clearly evident than the fair value of the assets surrendered. A tax-free gain of $1.7 billion on the Exchange was recognized in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations in fiscal 2008. Upon closing of the Exchange, the Company entered into a non-competition agreement with DIRECTV and non-competition agreements with each of the Three RSNs, in each case, restricting its right to compete for a period of four years with DIRECTV and the Three RSNs in the respective regions in which such entities were operating on the closing date of the Exchange.
Fiscal 2007 Transactions
Acquisitions
In November 2006, the Company, together with a local Turkish partner, acquired TGRT (now called "FOX TV"), a national general interest free-to-air broadcast television station in Turkey. The Company acquired its interest for approximately $103 million in cash, plus acquisition related costs.
In December 2006, NDS, formerly a majority owned subsidiary of the Company (see Fiscal 2009 Transactions for further discussion), acquired Jungo Limited, a developer and supplier of software for use in residential gateway devices, for approximately $91 million.
In January 2007, the Company and VeriSign formed a joint venture to provide entertainment content for mobile devices. The Company paid approximately $190 million for a controlling interest in VeriSign's wholly owned subsidiary, Jamba, which was combined with certain of the Company's Fox Mobile Entertainment assets. The results of the joint venture have been included in the Company's consolidated results of operations since January 2007. In October 2008, the Company purchased VeriSign's noncontrolling interest in the Jamba joint venture (see Fiscal 2009 Transactions for further discussion).
In March 2007, the Company acquired Strategic Data Corporation ("SDC"), a developer of technology that allows websites to target advertisements to specific audiences. The Company acquired SDC for a total purchase price of approximately $140 million, of which $40 million was in cash and approximately $100 million in other consideration.
In April 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of Federal Publishing Company's magazines, newspapers and online properties in Australia from F Hannan Pty Limited for approximately $393 million.
The aforementioned acquisitions were all accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 141.
Other Transactions
In fiscal 2007, the Company restructured the ownership interest in one of its majority-owned RSNs. The noncontrolling interest shareholder has a put right related to its ownership interest that is currently exercisable and is outside of the control of the Company. The Company accounts for this redeemable noncontrolling interest in accordance with EITF D-98 "Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities" ("EITF D-98") and, as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, has included the value of this redeemable noncontrolling interest in the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company previously entered into an agreement with a direct response marketing company that provided the Company with participation rights if the direct response marketing company is ever sold or consummates certain other strategic transactions. In December 2006, the Company entered into an agreement to terminate the participation rights for $100 million. This transaction closed in March 2007 and the Company recorded a gain of approximately $97 million on this transaction which is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007.
 
 
NOTE 4. RESTRUCTURING PROGRAMS
Fiscal 2009 Programs
In fiscal 2009, certain of the markets in which the Company's businesses operate have experienced a weakening in the current economic climate which has adversely affected advertising revenue and other consumer driven spending. As a result, a number of the Company's businesses implemented a series of operational actions to address the Company's cost structure, including FIM, which is restructuring the Company's digital media properties to align resources more closely with business priorities. This restructuring program has included significant job reductions, both domestically and internationally, to enable the businesses to operate on a more cost effective basis. In conjunction with this project the Company also eliminated excess facility requirements. In fiscal 2009, several other businesses of the Company have implemented similar plans including the U.K. and Australian newspapers, HarperCollins, MyNetworkTV and the Fox Television Stations. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company recorded restructuring charges in accordance with SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", of approximately $312 million. These charges consist of severance costs, facility related costs and other associated costs. The restructuring charges primarily relate to $20 million recorded at the Television segment, $33 million recorded at the Book Publishing segment, $74 million recorded at the Newspapers and Information Services segment and $182 million recorded at the Other segment during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The Other segment included charges of approximately $178 million related to FIM, $148 million of which was recorded for facility related costs.
Changes in the program liabilities were as follows:
 
The Company expects to record an additional $79 million of restructuring expense related to additional employee termination benefits and accretion on facility terminations through 2021. At June 30, 2009, restructuring liabilities of approximately $93 million and $144 million were included in the consolidated balance sheets in other current liabilities and other liabilities, respectively. Facility related costs of $144 million included in other liabilities and additional accretion are expected to be paid through fiscal 2021.
Dow Jones
As a result of the Dow Jones acquisition, the Company established and approved plans to integrate the acquired operations into the Company's Newspapers and Information Services segment. The cost to implement these plans consists of separation payments for certain Dow Jones executives under the change in control plan Dow Jones had previously established, non-cancelable lease commitments and lease termination charges for leased facilities that have or will be exited and other contract termination costs associated with the restructuring activities. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, the Company recorded additional amounts relating to separation payments and non-cancelable lease commitments as purchase accounting adjustments.
Changes in the plan liabilities were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
United Kingdom Redundancy Program
In fiscal 2005, the Company announced its intention to invest in new printing plants in the United Kingdom to take advantage of technological and market changes. As the new automated technology came on line, the Company benefited from lower production costs and improved newspaper quality, including expanded color.
In conjunction with this project, during fiscal 2006, the Company received formal approval for the construction of the main new plant which was the last contingency, thereby committing the Company to a redundancy program (the "Program") for certain production employees at the Company's U.K. newspaper operations. The Program was in response to the reduced workforce that is required as new printing presses and the new printing facilities came on line. As a result of this Program, the Company reduced its production workforce by approximately 65%, and over 700 employees in the United Kingdom voluntarily accepted severance agreements. The majority of such employees left the Company during fiscal 2008.
In accordance with SFAS No. 88, "Employers' Accounting for Settlements & Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," the Company recorded a redundancy provision of approximately $109 million during fiscal 2006 in restructuring charges. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded additional restructuring charges relating to the Program of $19 million and $24 million, respectively, which were comprised of an increase to the original provision amount, accretion and earned retention expenses. Approximately $5 million of this reserve remained as of June 30, 2008, which was utilized during fiscal 2009.
NOTE 5. INVENTORIES
As of June 30, 2009, the Company's inventories were comprised of the following:
 
 
As of June 30, 2009, the Company estimated that approximately 68% of unamortized filmed entertainment costs from the completed films are expected to be amortized during fiscal 2010 and approximately 94% of released filmed entertainment costs will be amortized within the next three fiscal years. During fiscal 2010, the Company expects to pay $941 million in accrued participation liabilities, which are included in participations, residuals and royalties payable on the consolidated balance sheets. At June 30, 2009, acquired
 
 
film and television libraries had remaining unamortized film costs of $80 million, which are generally amortized using the individual film forecast method over a remaining period of approximately one to 12 years.
NOTE 6. INVESTMENTS
As of June 30, 2009, the Company's investments were comprised of the following:
 
 
The cost basis, unrealized gains, unrealized losses and fair market value of available-for-sale investments are set forth below:
 
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, the Company reclassified gains of $12 million and $2 million, respectively, from accumulated other comprehensive income to the consolidated statements of operations, based on the specific identification method. No gains were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to the consolidated statements of operations during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
 
 
Equity (Losses) Earnings of Affiliates
The Company's share of the (losses) earnings of its equity affiliates was as follows:
 
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the Company amortized $10 million and $75 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to amounts allocated to finite-lived intangible assets. Such amortization is reflected in equity (losses) earnings of affiliates.
Fiscal Year 2009 Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions
Investments in Sky Deutschland
During fiscal 2008, the Company, through a series of transactions, acquired a 25% ownership interest in Sky Deutschland for cash consideration of approximately $666 million. As of April 2008, the Company had acquired an interest in Sky Deutschland of greater than 20% and exercised significant influence over Sky Deutschland and the Company began accounting for its investment in Sky Deutschland under the equity method of accounting accordingly.
During fiscal 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with Sky Deutschland and the bank syndicate of Sky Deutschland to provide Sky Deutschland with a new financing structure and additional capital through two equity capital increases. The first and second equity capital increases were structured as rights issues and were completed in January 2009 and April 2009, respectively. In the first equity capital increase, the Company purchased additional shares of Sky Deutschland for approximately $33 million. In the second equity capital increase, the Company purchased additional shares of Sky Deutschland for approximately $150 million, increasing the Company's ownership percentage in Sky Deutschland to 30.5%. As a result of the rights issues and other transactions, the Company invested an aggregate of approximately $300 million in shares of Sky Deutschland during fiscal 2009 and, as of June 30, 2009, the Company had an approximate 38% ownership interest in Sky Deutschland.
Since June 30, 2009, the Company acquired additional shares of Sky Deutschland, increasing its ownership to 39.96% as of August 5, 2009.
Impairment of Investments in Sky Deutschland
On October 2, 2008, Sky Deutschland announced guidance on its earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation ("EBITDA") indicating results substantially below prior guidance for calendar 2008. Sky Deutschland also announced that it had adopted a new classification of subscribers at September 30, 2008. The day after this announcement, Sky Deutschland experienced a significant decline in its market value. As a result of this decline, the Company's carrying value in Sky Deutschland exceeded its market value based upon Sky Deutschland's closing share price of 4.38 on October 3, 2008. The Company believes that this decline was not temporary based on the assessment described below and, accordingly, recorded an impairment charge of $422 million representing the difference between the Company's carrying value and the market value which was included in Equity (losses) earnings of affiliates in the Company's consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.
In determining if the decline in Sky Deutschland's market value was other-than-temporary, the Company considered a number of factors: (1) the financial condition, operating performance and near term prospects of Sky Deutschland; (2) the reason for the decline in Sky Deutschland's fair value; (3) analysts' ratings and estimates of 12 month share price targets for Sky Deutschland; and (4) the length of time and the extent to which Sky Deutschland's market value had been less than the carrying value of the Company's investment.
 
 
Due to the volatility of Sky Deutschland's common stock, the Company will continue to monitor this investment for possible future impairment.
Other
In August 2008, the Company entered into an agreement providing for the restructuring of the Company's content acquisition agreements with Balaji Telefilms Ltd ("Balaji"). As part of this restructuring agreement, the Company no longer has representation on Balaji's board and does not have significant influence in management decisions; therefore, the Company believes that it no longer has the ability to exercise significant influence over Balaji. Accordingly, the Company accounts for its investment under the cost method of accounting and, the carrying value is adjusted to market value each reporting period as required under SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" ("SFAS No. 115").
In February 2009, the Company, the Permira Newcos and NDS completed the NDS Transaction, resulting in the Permira Newcos and the Company owning approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively. The Company's remaining interest in NDS is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 3Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions for further discussion)
Fiscal Year 2008 Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions
In March 2008, the Company and its joint venture partner completed a series of transactions and sold its entire interest in the cable systems in Taiwan, in which the Company maintained a noncontrolling interest ownership, to third parties for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $360 million. The Company recognized pre-tax gains totaling approximately $133 million on the sales included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
Effective September 30, 2007, NGT, Inc. ("NGT") gave the Company control over National Geographic Channel US LLC ("NGC US") in which the Company has a 67% equity interest. Accordingly, the results of NGC US are included in the Company's consolidated results of operations beginning October 1, 2007.
During fiscal 2008, the Company effectively acquired an additional 27% stake in NGC Network (UK) Limited ("NGC UK") in exchange for a 23% interest in NGC Network International LLC ("NGC International") and a 14% interest in NGC Network Latin America LLC ("NGC Latin America"). As a result of this transaction, the Company owns 52% of NGC International, NGC Latin America and NGC UK. In January 2007, the Company obtained operating control over NGC International and NGC Latin America and has included their results in the Company's consolidated results of operations since January 2007. The Company has included the operating results of NGC UK in the Company's consolidated results beginning in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
In April 2008, the Company sold its interest in Fox Sports Net Bay Area for approximately $245 million. The Company recorded a gain of approximately $208 million on the disposal which is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
In May 2008, the Company disposed of its entire interest (approximately 41%) in the common stock of Gemstar-TV Guide International, Inc. ("Gemstar") in exchange for a cash payment of approximately $637 million and approximately 19 million shares of Macrovision Solutions Corporation ("Macrovision") common stock. The Company sold its shares of Macrovision common stock in June 2008. The Company recorded a net gain of approximately $112 million on the disposals which is included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.
Fiscal Year 2007 Acquisitions and Disposals
In August 2006, the Company sold a portion of its equity investment in Phoenix Satellite Television Holdings Limited ("Phoenix"), representing a 19.9% stake, for approximately $164 million. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $136 million on the sale included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The Company retained a 17.6% stake in Phoenix, which is accounted for under the cost method of accounting and, accordingly, the carrying value is adjusted to market value each reporting period as required under SFAS No. 115.
In August 2006, the Company completed the sale of its investment in SKY Brasil, a Brazilian DTH platform, to DIRECTV for approximately $300 million in cash which was received in fiscal 2005, resulting in a total pre-tax gain of $426 million on the sale. Of this total gain, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $261 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. The Company deferred $165 million of its total gain, through a reduction in the DIRECTV basis, due to its indirect interest through the Company's ownership of DIRECTV. As a result of the closing of the Exchange in February 2008, the Company exchanged 100% of
 
 
the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary that held the Company's approximate 41% interest in DIRECTV and other assets for Liberty's entire interest in the Company's common stock (See Note 3  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions for further discussion of the Exchange), and the Company recognized the previously deferred gain in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The total gain of $426 million was greater than the total consideration received due to the recognition of losses in excess of the carrying amount of the investment as the Company was committed to provide further financial support to SKY Brasil. As a result of the sale of its investment in SKY Brasil, the Company was released from its SKY Brasil transponder lease guarantee and was released from its SKY Brasil credit agreement guarantee in January 2007.
In October 2006, the Company acquired a 7.3% share in Fairfax, an Australian newspaper publisher, for approximately $299 million. The Company sold its investment in Fairfax in May 2007. A loss of approximately $9 million on this sale was included in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007.
In December 2006, the Company acquired 25% stakes in each of NGC International and NGC UK joint ventures for a combined total of approximately $154 million. These two joint ventures produce and distribute the National Geographic Channel in various international markets. The transaction increased the Company's interest in NGC International to 75% with NGT holding the remaining interest. In January 2007, NGT agreed to certain governance changes related to the operations of NGC International and NGC Latin America which gave the Company operating decision-making authority and control over these entities. Accordingly, the results of NGC International and NGC Latin America have been included in the Company's consolidated results of operations since January 2007.
Impairments of cost method investments
The Company regularly reviews cost method investments for impairments based on criteria that include the extent to which the investment's carrying value exceeds its related market value, the duration of the market decline, the Company's ability to hold its investment until recovery and the investment's financial strength and specific prospects. In the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company wrote down certain cost method investments by approximately $113 million, $125 million and $2 million, respectively. The write-down in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 included a $58 million impairment related to an investment in a sports and entertainment company and a $38 million impairment related to a television content production company. The write-down in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 included a $114 million impairment related to an investment in an Asian premium movie channel. The above write-downs are reflected in Other, net in the consolidated statements of operations and were taken as a result of either the deteriorating financial position of the investee or due to a permanent impairment resulting from sustained losses and limited prospects for recovery.
NOTE 7. FAIR VALUE
In accordance with SFAS No. 157, fair value measurements are required to be disclosed using a three-tiered fair value hierarchy which distinguishes market participant assumptions into the following categories: (i) inputs that are quoted prices in active markets ("Level 1"); (ii) inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities ("Level 2"); and (iii) inputs that require the entity to use its own assumptions about market participant assumptions ("Level 3"). Additionally, in accordance with SFAS No. 161, the Company has included additional disclosures about the Company's derivatives and hedging activities (Level 2). (See Note 11Exchangeable Securities)
 
 
The table below presents information about financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis as of June 30, 2009:
 
 
 
 
The fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest in the Company's RSN was determined by using a discounted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization valuation model, assuming a 9.5% discount rate.
The fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest in the majorityowned outdoor marketing subsidiary was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis assuming a 5% terminal growth rate and a 15% discount rate.
The fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest in the Asian general entertainment television joint venture was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis assuming a multiple of eight times terminal year EBITDA.
 
 
The changes in fair value of liabilities classified as Level 3 measurements during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 are as follows:
 
NOTE 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
 
Depreciation and amortization related to property, plant and equipment was $942 million, $1,009 million and $769 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. This includes depreciation of set-top boxes in the DBS segment of $152 million, $142 million and $119 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Total operating lease expense was approximately $563 million, $497 million and $432 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
NOTE 9. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of FCC licenses, are reviewed annually for impairment or earlier if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets below their carrying amount. During the second quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company performed an interim impairment review in advance of its annual impairment assessment because the Company believed events had occurred and circumstances had changed that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets below their carrying amounts. These events included: (a) the decline of the price of the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock below the carrying value of the Company's stockholders' equity; (b) the reduced growth in advertising revenues; (c) the decline in the operating profit margins in some of the Company's advertising-based businesses; and (d) the decline in the valuations of other television stations, newspapers and advertising-based companies as determined by the current trading values of those companies. In addition, the Company also performed an annual impairment assessment of its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
The Company's goodwill impairment reviews are determined using a two-step process. The first step of the process is to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit by primarily using a discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation approach methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, perpetual growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The cash flows employed in the analyses are based on the Company's estimated outlook and various growth rates have been assumed for years beyond the long-term business plan period. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future
 
 
cash flows of the respective reporting units. In assessing the reasonableness of its determined fair values, the Company evaluates its results against other value indicators, such as comparable public company trading values. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment review is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the goodwill impairment review is required to be performed to estimate the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. That is, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
The Company performed impairment reviews consisting of a comparison of the estimated fair value of the Company's FCC licenses with their carrying amount on a station-by-station basis using a discounted cash flow valuation method, assuming a hypothetical start-up scenario for a broadcast station in each of the markets the Company operates in. The significant assumptions used were the discount rate and terminal growth rates and operating margins, as well as industry data on future advertising revenues in the markets where the Company owns television stations. These assumptions are based on actual historical performance in each market and estimates of future performance in each market. These assumptions take into account the weakening of advertising markets that have affected both the national and local markets in which the Company's stations operate.
The assumptions noted above take into account the weakening of the economies in the markets where the Company's businesses operate. The assumptions have been adjusted since the Company's annual impairment review conducted in fiscal 2008 to reflect the weakened global economies and, in particular, the advertising markets. Accordingly, the market growth rates and operating profit margin assumptions were lowered to reflect the current general economic trends in the markets where the Company's businesses operate. The potential increase in the goodwill impairment charge resulting from a 10% adverse change in the estimated value of the impaired reporting units would be approximately $1.0 billion. The potential increase in the FCC licenses impairment charge resulting from a 10% adverse change in the assumptions above would be approximately $480 million.
As a result of the impairment reviews performed, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of approximately $8.9 billion ($7.2 billion, net of tax) during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The charges consisted of a write-down of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily FCC licenses in the Television segment) of $4.6 billion, a write-down of $4.1 billion of goodwill and a write-down of the Newspapers and Information Services segment's fixed assets of $185 million in accordance with SFAS No. 144. As a result of the continued adverse economic conditions in the markets in which the Company conducts business, the Company will continue to monitor its goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets for possible future impairment.
The carrying values of the Company's intangible assets and related accumulated amortization were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The changes in the carrying value of goodwill, by segment, are as follows:
 
 
Amortization related to finite-lived intangible assets was $196 million, $198 million and $110 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Based on the current amount of intangible assets subject to amortization, the estimated amortization expense for each of the succeeding five fiscal years is as follows: 2010$195 million; 2011$162 million; 2012$147 million; 2013$131 million; and 2014$124 million. These amounts may vary as acquisitions and disposals occur in the future and as purchase price allocations are finalized.
NOTE 10. BORROWINGS
 
At June 30, 2009, the fair value of interest bearing liabilities in aggregate amounts to $13.5 billion.
 
 
 
In January 2008, the Company retired its $350 million 6.625% Senior Notes due 2008.
In October 2008, the Company retired its $200 million 7.375% Senior Notes due 2008.
In February 2009, the Company issued $700 million of 6.90% Senior Notes due 2019 and $300 million of 7.85% Senior Notes due 2039 for general corporate purposes. The Company received proceeds of approximately $993 million on the issuance of this debt, net of expense.
The Company's $250 million of 6.75% Senior Debenture due January 2038 may be put at the option of the holder to the Company in January 2010 at par and was classified as current borrowings as of June 30, 2009.
 
On February 28, 2006, 92% of the LYONs were redeemed for cash at the specified redemption amount of $594.25 per LYON. Accordingly, the Company paid an aggregate of approximately $831 million to the holders of the LYONs that had exercised this redemption option.
The LYONs constitute senior indebtedness of NAI and rank equal in right of payment with all present and future senior indebtedness of NAI. The Parent Guarantor has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the LYONs. The LYONs, which have been recorded at a discount, are being accreted using the effective interest rate method.
 
Ratings of Public Debt
The table below summarizes the Company's credit ratings as of June 30, 2009.
 
 
 
Original Currencies of Borrowings
Borrowings are payable in the following currencies:
 
The impact of foreign currency movements on borrowings during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 was approximately $29 million.
In May 2007, NAI entered into a credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), among NAI as Borrower, the Company as Parent Guarantor, the lenders named therein (the "Lenders"), Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent. The Credit Agreement provides a $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a sub-limit of $600 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. NAI may request an increase in the amount of the credit facility up to a maximum amount of $2.5 billion. Borrowings are in U.S. dollars only, while letters of credit are issuable in U.S. dollars or Euros. The significant terms of the agreement include the requirement that the Company maintain specific leverage ratios and limitations on secured indebtedness. The Company pays a facility fee of 0.08% regardless of facility usage. The Company pays interest for borrowings at LIBOR plus 0.27% and pays commission fees on letters of credit at 0.27%. The Company pays an additional fee of 0.05% if borrowings under the facility exceed 50% of the committed facility. The interest and fees are based on the Company's current debt rating. The maturity date is in May 2012, however, NAI may request that the Lenders' commitments be renewed for up to two additional one year periods. At June 30, 2009, approximately $70 million in standby letters of credit for the benefit of third parties were outstanding.
NOTE 11. EXCHANGEABLE SECURITIES
TOPrS
In November 1996, the Company, through a trust (the "Exchange Trust") wholly-owned by NAI, issued 10 million 5% TOPrS for aggregate gross proceeds of $1 billion. Such proceeds were invested in (i) preferred securities representing a beneficial interest of NAI's 5% Subordinated Discount Debentures due November 12, 2016 (the "Subordinated Debentures") and (ii) 10,000,000 warrants to purchase from NAI ordinary shares of BSkyB (the "Warrants"). During fiscal 2003, approximately 85% of the Company's outstanding TOPrS and related warrants were redeemed. As of June 30, 2009, approximately 1.5 million TOPrS and 1 million warrants remained outstanding. These investments represent the sole assets of the Exchange Trust. Cumulative cash distributions are payable on the TOPrS at an annual rate of 5%. The TOPrS have a mandatory redemption date of November 12, 2016 or earlier to the extent of any redemption by NAI of any Subordinated Debentures or Warrants. The Company has the right to pay cash equal to the market value of the BSkyB ordinary shares for which the Warrants are exercisable in lieu of delivering freely tradable shares. The Company and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries have certain obligations relating to the TOPrS, the preferred securities representing a beneficial interest in the Subordinated Debentures, the Subordinated Debentures and Warrants which amount to a full and unconditional guarantee of the respective issuer's obligations with respect thereto.
The total net proceeds from the issuance of the TOPrS were allocated between the fair value of the obligation and the fair value of the Warrants on their date of issuance. The fair value of the Warrants is determined at the end of each period using the Black-Scholes method. The original fair value of the obligation has been recorded in non-current borrowings and in accordance with SFAS No. 133, the Warrants are reported at fair value and in non-current other liabilities. The fair value of the obligation is accreted to its maturity value through the effective interest method. (See Note 23Additional Financial Information) A significant variance in the price of the underlying stock could have a material impact on the operating results of the Company.
As of June 30, 2009, $129 million and $4 million of the TOPrS were included in borrowings and non-current liabilities, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets. As of June 30, 2008, $131 million and $17 million of the TOPrS were included in borrowings and non-current liabilities, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
 
BUCS
During fiscal 2003, News Corporation Finance Trust II (the "Trust") issued an aggregate of $1.655 billion 0.75% BUCS representing interests in debentures issued by NAI and guaranteed on a senior basis by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries. The net proceeds from the BUCS issuance were used to purchase approximately 85% of the Company's outstanding TOPrS. The BUCS are exchangeable at the holders' option into BSkyB ordinary shares based on an exchange ratio of 77.09 BSkyB ordinary shares per $1,000 original liquidation amount of BUCS. The Trust may pay the exchange market value of each BUCS by delivering ordinary shares of BSkyB or a combination of cash and ordinary shares of BSkyB.
The holders also have the right to tender the BUCS for redemption on March 15, 2010, March 15, 2013 or March 15, 2018 for payment of the adjusted liquidation preference plus accrued and unpaid distributions and any final period distribution in, at the Company's election, cash, BSkyB ordinary shares, the Company's Class A Common Stock or any combination thereof.
The Company may redeem the BUCS for cash, BSkyB ordinary shares or a combination thereof in whole or in part, at any time on or after March 20, 2010, at the adjusted liquidation preference of the BUCS plus any accrued and unpaid distributions and any final period distribution thereon.
The total net proceeds from the issuance of the BUCS were allocated between the fair value of the obligation and the fair value of the exchange feature. The fair values of the obligation and the exchange feature were determined by pricing the issuance with and without the exchange feature. The original fair value of the obligation has been recorded in non-current borrowings and in accordance with SFAS No.133, the call option feature of the exchangeable debentures is reported at fair value and in non-current other liabilities. The fair value of the obligation is being accreted to its maturity value through the effective interest method. (See Note 23Additional Financial Information) A significant variance in the price of the underlying stock could have a material impact on the operating results of the Company.
As of June 30, 2009, $1,608 million of the 0.75% BUCS was classified as current borrowings on the consolidated balance sheets. As of June 30, 2008, $1,561 million and $64 million of the BUCS were included in borrowings and non-current liabilities, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets.
NOTE 12. FILM PRODUCTION FINANCING
The Company enters into arrangements with third parties to co-produce certain of its theatrical productions. These arrangements, which are referred to as co-financing arrangements, take various forms. The parties to these arrangements include studio and non-studio entities. In several of these agreements, other parties control certain distribution rights. The Filmed Entertainment segment records the amounts received for the sale of an economic interest as a reduction of the cost of the film, as the investor assumes full risk for that portion of the film asset acquired in these transactions. The substance of these arrangements is that the third-party investors own an interest in the film and, therefore, receive a participation based on the third-party investor's contractual interest in the profits or losses incurred on the film. Consistent with the requirements of SOP 00-2, the estimate of the third-party investor's interest in profits or losses incurred on the film is determined by reference to the ratio of actual revenue earned to date in relation to total estimated ultimate revenues.
NOTE 13. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Preferred Stock and Common Stock
Under the News Corporation Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock or common stock at any time, without stockholder approval, and to determine all the terms of those shares, including the following:
(i) the voting rights, if any, except that the issuance of preferred stock or series common stock which entitles holders thereof to more than one vote per share requires the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of the Company's capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors;
(ii) the dividend rate and preferences, if any, which that preferred stock or common stock will have compared to any other class; and
(iii) the redemption and liquidation rights and preferences, if any, which that preferred stock or common stock will have compared to any other class.
 
 
Any decision by the Board to issue preferred stock or common stock must, however, be taken in accordance with the Board's fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the Company's stockholders. The Company is authorized to issue 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. As of June 30, 2009, there were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding. The Board has the authority, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, to issue preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the number of shares, designations, relative rights (including voting rights), preferences, qualifications and limitations of such series to the full extent permitted by Delaware law.
The Company has two classes of common stock that are authorized and outstanding, non-voting Class A Common Stock and voting Class B Common Stock. Class A Common Stock carried the right to dividends in the amount equal to 120% of the aggregate of all dividends declared on a share of Class B Common Stock through fiscal 2007. Subsequent to the final fiscal 2007 dividend payment, shares of Class A Common Stock ceased to carry any rights to a greater dividend than shares of Class B Common Stock.
As of June 30, 2009, there were approximately 50,000 holders of record of shares of Class A Common Stock and 1,400 holders of record of Class B Common Stock.
In the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Company, or a portion thereof, holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive all of the remaining assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, ratably in proportion to the number of shares held by Class A Common Stock holders and Class B Common Stock holders, respectively. In the event of any merger or consolidation with or into another entity, the holders of Class A Common Stock and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive substantially identical per share consideration.
Stockholder Rights Plan
In fiscal 2005, the Board adopted a stockholder rights plan (the "Rights Plan"). Under the Rights Plan, each stockholder of record received a distribution of one right for each share of voting and non-voting common stock of the Company.
On August 8, 2006, in accordance with the terms of the settlement of a lawsuit regarding the Company's stockholder rights plan, the Board approved the adoption of an Amended and Restated Rights Plan, as amended (the "Amended Rights Plan"), extending the term of the Rights Plan from November 7, 2007 to October 20, 2008. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement, on October 20, 2006, the Rights Plan was approved by a vote of the Company's Class B stockholders at the Company's 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. On April 15, 2008, the Company entered into an amendment to the Amended Rights Plan to amend the final expiration date of the rights issued pursuant to the Amended Rights Plan (the "Rights") from October 20, 2008 to April 15, 2008. Accordingly, the Rights expired at the close of business on April 15, 2008 and the Amended Rights Plan was terminated and is of no further force and effect.
Stock Repurchase Program
In June 2005, the Company announced a stock repurchase program under which the Company is authorized to acquire from time to time up to an aggregate of $3 billion in Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In May 2006, the Company announced that the Board had authorized increasing the total amount of the stock repurchase program to $6 billion. During fiscal 2009, the Company did not repurchase any shares. The Company repurchased approximately 20 million shares during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. The remaining authorized amount under the Company's stock repurchase program was approximately $1,761 million, excluding commissions at June 30, 2009.
The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Dividends
 
 
 
NOTE 14. EQUITY BASED COMPENSATION
News Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Company has adopted the News Corporation 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan") under which equity based compensation, including stock options, restricted stock, RSUs and other types of awards, may be granted. Such equity grants under the 2005 Plan generally vest over a four-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. The Company's employees and directors are eligible to participate in the 2005 Plan. The Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Compensation Committee") determines the recipients, type of award to be granted and amounts of awards to be granted under the 2005 Plan. Stock options awarded under the 2005 Plan will be granted at exercise prices which are equal to or exceed the market price at the date of grant. The 2005 Plan replaced the News Corporation 2004 Stock Option Plan under which no additional stock options will be granted. The maximum number of shares of Class A Common Stock that may be issued under the 2005 Plan is 165 million shares. At June 30, 2009, the remaining number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan was approximately 134 million. The Company will issue new shares of Class A Common Stock for award upon exercises of stock options or vesting of stock-settled RSUs.
The fair value of equity-based compensation under the 2005 Plan will be calculated according to the type of award issued.
Stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs") issued under the 2005 Plan will be fair valued using a Black-Scholes option valuation method that uses the following assumptions: expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the shares underlying the option; expected term of awards granted is derived from the historical activity of the Company's awards and represents the period of time that the awards granted are expected to be outstanding; weighted average risk-free interest rate is an average of the interest rates of U.S. government bonds with similar lives on the dates of the stock option grants; and dividend yield is calculated as an average of a ten year history of the Company's yearly dividend divided by the fiscal year's closing stock price.
RSU awards are grants that entitle the holder to shares of Class A Common Stock or the value of shares of Class A Common Stock as the award vests, subject to the 2005 Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Compensation Committee may establish. RSUs issued under the 2005 Plan are fair valued based upon the fair market value of Class A Common Stock on the grant date. Any person who holds RSUs shall have no ownership interest in the shares of Class A Common Stock to which such RSUs relate until and unless shares of Class A Common Stock are delivered to the holder. All shares of Class A Common Stock reserved for cancelled or forfeited equity-based compensation awards or for awards that are settled in cash become available for future grants. Certain RSU awards are settled in cash and are subject to terms and conditions of the 2005 Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Compensation Committee may establish.
During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company issued 12.0 million, 7.5 million and 1.8 million RSUs, respectively, which primarily vest over four years. Outstanding RSUs as of June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are payable in shares of the Class A Common Stock, upon vesting, except for approximately 3 million RSUs that will be settled in cash. RSUs granted to executive directors are settled in cash and certain awards granted to employees in certain foreign locations are settled in cash. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 1,781,000, 767,000 and 951,000 of cash-settled RSUs vested, respectively, and the Company settled approximately $24 million, $25 million and $15 million of liabilities related to these RSUs, respectively. At June 30, 2009 and 2008, the liability for cash-settled RSUs was approximately $52 million and $80 million, respectively.
 
 
The following table summarizes the activity related to the Company's RSUs to be settled in stock:
 
 
Certain executives, who are not named executive officers of the Company, responsible for various business units within the Company had the opportunity to earn a grant of RSUs under the 2005 Plan in fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009. These awards (the "Performance Awards") were conditioned upon the attainment of pre-determined operating profit goals for fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009 by the executive's particular business unit. If the actual fiscal 2007, 2008 and 2009 operating profit of the executive's business unit as compared to its pre-determined target operating profit for the fiscal year was within a certain performance goal range, the executive was entitled to receive a grant of RSUs pursuant to a Performance Award. To the extent that it was determined that the business unit's actual fiscal 2007, 2008 or 2009 operating profit fell within the performance goal range for that fiscal year, the executive received a percentage of his or her annualized base salary, ranging from 0% to 100%, in time-vested RSUs representing shares of Class A Common Stock. The RSUs are generally payable in shares of Class A Common Stock upon vesting and are subject to the participants' continued employment with the Company. As of June 30, 2009, a total of 11.2 million RSUs have been issued in connection with the Performance Award program of which 3.8 million have vested. The remaining balance will vest in the next three fiscal years. In fiscal 2010, approximately 3.9 million RSUs were issued in connection with these fiscal 2009 Performance Awards, twenty-five percent of which will vest as of August 15, 2009. The remaining balance will vest in three equal annual installments, subject to the individual's continued employment with the Company.
News Corporation 2004 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Replacement Stock Option Plan
As a result of the Company's reorganization in November 2004, all preferred limited voting ordinary shares which the Company issued stock options over were cancelled and holders received in exchange stock options for shares of Class A Common Stock on a one-for-two basis with no change in the original terms under the News Corporation 2004 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Replacement Stock Option Plan (collectively, the "2004 Plan"). In addition, all other outstanding stock options to purchase preferred limited voting ordinary shares were adjusted to be exercisable into shares of Class A Common Stock subject to the one-for-two share exchange. Prior to the Company's reorganization in November 2004, stock options were granted to employees with Australian dollar exercise prices.
Under the 2004 Plan, equity grants generally vest over a four-year period and expire ten years from the date of grant. The equity awards were granted with exercise prices that are equal to or exceed the market price at the date of grant and were valued, in Australian dollars. The 2004 Plan automatically terminates in 2014.
Other
The Company operates employee share ownership schemes in the United Kingdom and Ireland. These plans enable employees to enter into fixed-term savings contracts with independent financial institutions linked to an option for Class A Common Stock. The savings contracts can range from three to seven years with an average expected life of four years. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company granted approximately 1,103,000, 493,000 and 256,000 stock options under this scheme, respectively.
 
 
The following table summarizes information about the Company's stock option transactions for all the Company's stock option plans (options in thousands):
 
 
The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions used for grants in fiscal years ended June 30:
 
The fair value of each outstanding stock option award under the 2004 Plan was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model that uses the following assumptions: expected volatility was based on historical volatility of the Class A Common Stock; expected term of stock options granted was derived from the historical activity of the Company's stock options and represented the period of time that stock options granted were expected to be outstanding; weighted average risk-free interest rate was an average of the interest rates of U.S. government bonds with similar lives on the dates of the stock option grants; and dividend yield was calculated as an average of a ten year history of the Company's yearly dividend divided by the fiscal year's closing stock price.
The exercise prices for the stock options issued prior to the Company's reorganization in November 2004 are in Australian dollars. The U.S. dollar equivalents presented above have been converted at historical exchange rates; therefore, the proceeds from the exercise of these stock options may differ due to fluctuations in exchange rates in periods subsequent to the date of the grant.
At June 30, 2009, 1,937,000 of the SARs were vested and exercisable. No SARs have been issued since fiscal 2005.
 
 
The following table summarizes information about the Company's stock option transactions (options in thousands):
 
NDS Option Schemes
In February 2009, the Company, the Permira Newcos and NDS completed the NDS Transaction, resulting in the Permira Newcos and the Company owning approximately 51% and 49% of NDS, respectively. As a result of the completion of the NDS Transaction, NDS ceased to be a public company and the Company's remaining interest in NDS is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 3  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions) Prior to the completion of the NDS Transaction, NDS had three executive share option schemes ("the NDS Plans"). The NDS Plans provided for the grant of options to purchase Series A ordinary shares in NDS and RSU awards that entitled the holder to NDS Series A ordinary shares as the awards vested. In connection with the NDS Transaction, all nonvested equity awards vested and the NDS Plans were terminated. The Company included approximately $44 million of equity-based compensation expense related to NDS awards in its consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The Company also recognized approximately $70 million in cash received from exercise of equity- based compensation and $73 million in intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 related to NDS equity-based awards.
The following table summarizes the Company's equity-based compensation:
 
 
At June 30, 2009, the Company's total compensation cost related to non-vested stock options and RSUs not yet recognized for all plans presented was approximately $154 million, the majority of which is expected to be recognized over the next two fiscal years. Compensation expense on all equity-based awards is recognized on a straight line basis over the vesting period of the entire award.
The Company recognized a tax (expense) benefit on vested RSUs and stock options exercised of ($7) million, $17 million and $72 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
 
NOTE 15. RELATED PARTIES
Director transactions
The Company has engaged Mrs. Wendi Murdoch, the wife of Mr. K.R. Murdoch, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to provide strategic advice for the development of the MySpace business in China. The fees paid to Mrs. Murdoch pursuant to this arrangement are $100,000 per annum and Mrs. Murdoch received $100,000 in both the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and 2008 and $83,333 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. Mrs. Murdoch is a Director of MySpace China Holdings Limited ("MySpace China"), a joint venture in which the Company owns a 51.7% interest on a fully diluted basis, which licenses the technology and brand to the local company in China that operates the MySpace China website. Similar to other Directors of MySpace China, Mrs. Murdoch received options over 2.5% of the fully diluted shares of MySpace China that will vest over four years under the MySpace China option plan.
Freud Communications, which is controlled by Matthew Freud, Mr. K.R. Murdoch's son-in-law, provided external support to the press and publicity activities of the Company during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007. The fees paid by the Company to Freud Communications were approximately $473,000, $669,000 and $500,000 in fiscal 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. At June 30, 2009, there were no outstanding amounts due to or from Freud Communications.
The Shine Group ("Shine"), a television production and distribution company, is controlled by Ms. Elisabeth Murdoch, the daughter of Mr. K.R. Murdoch. Through the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of the Company have entered into various production and distribution arrangements with Shine. Pursuant to these arrangements, the Company paid Shine an aggregate of approximately $453,000 and $300,000 in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No amounts were paid to Shine in fiscal year 2009.
Mr. Mark Hurd, a Director of the Company, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). Through the normal course of business, HP sells certain equipment and provides services to the Company and its subsidiaries pursuant to a worldwide agreement entered into by the Company and HP in August 2007. Pursuant to this agreement, the Company paid HP approximately $47 million and $68 million in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Dr. Roderick R. Paige was a Director of the Company until February 2008. Upon his resignation from the Board, the Company and Dr. Paige entered into a consultancy arrangement pursuant to which Dr. Paige advised the Company on certain educational matters. The consultancy arrangement was terminated in March 2009. The fees paid by the Company to Dr. Paige pursuant to this arrangement were $240,000 per annum and Dr. Paige received $90,668 in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Other than fees related to his Directorship, no amounts were paid to Dr. Paige in fiscal 2007.
Mr. Stanley Shuman, Director Emeritus, and Mr. Kenneth Siskind, son of Mr. Arthur M. Siskind, who is a Director and senior advisor to the Chairman, are Managing Directors of Allen & Company LLC, a U.S. based investment bank, which provided investment advisory services to the Company. Total fees paid to Allen & Company LLC were $17.5 million and $7.5 million in fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. No fees were paid to Allen & Company LLC during fiscal 2007.
Other related entities
In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into transactions with related parties, such as equity affiliates, to purchase and/or sell advertising, the sale of programming, administrative services and supplying digital technology and services for digital pay television platforms. The following table sets forth the net revenue from related parties included in the consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the amount of accounts receivable due from and payable to related parties outstanding on the consolidated balance sheets:
 
Liberty Transaction
In February 2008, the Company completed the Exchange with Liberty. Pursuant to the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement, Liberty exchanged its entire interest in the Company's common stock for 100% of a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, whose holdings consisted of the Company's approximate 41% interest in DIRECTV, the Three RSNs and $625 million in cash. As a result of the closing of the Exchange, Liberty ceased to be a related party in February 2008. (See Note 3  Acquisitions, Disposals and Other Transactions for further discussion of the Share Exchange Agreement)
NOTE 16. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The Company has commitments under certain firm contractual arrangements ("firm commitments") to make future payments. These firm commitments secure the future rights to various assets and services to be used in the normal course of operations. The following table summarizes the Company's material firm commitments as of June 30, 2009.
 
The Company also has certain contractual arrangements in relation to certain investees that would require the Company to make payments or provide funding if certain circumstances occur ("contingent guarantees"). The Company does not expect that these contingent guarantees will result in any material amounts being paid by the Company in the foreseeable future. The timing of the amounts presented in the table below reflect when the maximum contingent guarantees will expire and does not indicate that the Company expects to incur an obligation to make payments during that time frame.
 
 
 
Under the Company's contract with the National Football League ("NFL"), remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain football games are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2014.
The Company's contracts with the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing ("NASCAR") give the Company rights to broadcast certain races and ancillary content through calendar year 2014.
Under the Company's contract with the Bowl Championship Series ("BCS"), remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast the BCS are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2010.
Under the Company's contract with the Big Ten Conference, remaining future minimum payments for program rights to broadcast certain Big Ten Conference sporting events are payable over the remaining term of the contract through fiscal 2032.
In addition, the Company has certain other local sports broadcasting rights.
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," and SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," the total accrued benefit liability for pension and other postretirement benefit plans recognized as of June 30, 2009 was approximately $759 million (See Note 17 - Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits). This amount is effected by, among other items, statutory funding levels, changes in plan demographics and assumptions, and investment returns on plan assets. Because of the current overall funded status of the Company's material plans, the accrued liability does not represent expected near-term liquidity needs and, accordingly, this amount is not included in the contractual obligations table.
Contingencies
Intermix
On August 26, 2005 and August 30, 2005, two purported class action lawsuits captioned, respectively, , and , were filed in the California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles. Both lawsuits named as defendants all of the then incumbent members of the Intermix Board, including Mr. Rosenblatt, Intermix's former Chief Executive Officer, and certain entities affiliated with VantagePoint Venture Partners ("VantagePoint"), a former major Intermix stockholder. The complaints alleged that, in pursuing the transaction whereby Intermix was to be acquired by FIM (the "FIM Transaction") and approving the related merger agreement, the director defendants breached their fiduciary duties to Intermix stockholders by, among other things, engaging in self-dealing and failing to obtain the highest price reasonably available for Intermix and its stockholders. The complaints further alleged that the merger agreement resulted from a flawed process and that the defendants tailored the terms of the merger to advance their own interests. The FIM Transaction was consummated on September 30, 2005. The and lawsuits were subsequently consolidated and, on January 17, 2006, a consolidated amended complaint was filed (the ""). The plaintiffs in the consolidated action sought various forms of declaratory relief, damages, disgorgement and fees and costs. On March 20, 2006, the court ordered that substantially identical claims
Ron Sheppard v. Richard Rosenblatt et. al.
John Friedmann v. Intermix Media, Inc. et al.
Friedmann
Sheppard
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
 
 
asserted in a separate state action filed by Brad Greenspan, captioned , be severed and related to the . The defendants filed demurrers seeking dismissal of all claims in the and the severed Greenspan claims. On October 6, 2006, the court sustained the demurrers without leave to amend. On December 13, 2006, the court dismissed the complaints and entered judgment for the defendants. Greenspan and plaintiffs in the filed notices of appeal. The Court of Appeal heard arguments on the fully briefed appeal on October 23, 2008. On November 11, 2008, the Court of Appeal issued an unpublished opinion affirming Judge Kuhl's dismissal on all counts. On December 19, 2008, shareholder appellants filed a Petition for Review with the California Supreme Court. After the lower court sustained the demurrers in the , co-counsel for certain of plaintiffs moved for an award of attorney's fees and costs under a common law substantial benefit theory. On October 4, 2007, the court granted the motion and denied defendants' application to tax costs. After defendants filed a notice of appeal, the matter was resolved.
Greenspan v. Intermix Media, Inc., et al.
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
In November 2005, plaintiff in a derivative action captioned pending against various former Intermix directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Central District of California filed a First Amended Class and Derivative Complaint (the "Amended Complaint"). The original derivative action was filed in May 2003 and arose out of Intermix's restatement of quarterly financial results for its fiscal year ended March 31, 2003. A substantially similar derivative action filed in Los Angeles Superior Court was dismissed based on inability of the plaintiffs to adequately plead demand futility. Plaintiff LeBoyer's November 2005 Amended Complaint added various allegations and purported class claims arising out of the FIM Transaction that are substantially similar to those asserted in the . The Amended Complaint also added as defendants the individuals and entities named in the that were not already defendants in the matter. On October 16, 2006, the court dismissed the fourth through seventh claims for relief, which related to the 2003 restatement, finding that the plaintiff is precluded from relitigating demand futility. At the same time, the court asked for further briefing regarding plaintiffs' standing to assert derivative claims based on the FIM Transaction, including for alleged violation of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, the effect of the state judge's dismissal of the claims in the case and the on the remaining direct class action claims alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and other common law claims leading up to the FIM Transaction. The parties filed the requested additional briefing in which the defendants requested that the court stay the direct LeBoyer claims pending the resolution of any appeal in the case and the . By order dated May 22, 2007, the court granted defendants' motion to dismiss the derivative claims arising out of the FIM Transaction, and denied the defendants' request to stay the two remaining direct claims. As explained in more detail in the next paragraph, the court subsequently consolidated this case with the action also pending before the court. On July 11, 2007, plaintiffs filed the consolidated first amended complaint under the case title. See the discussion of for the subsequent developments in the consolidated case.
LeBoyer v. Greenspan et al.
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
Greenspan
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
Greenspan
Intermix Media Shareholder Litigation
Brown v. Brewer
Brown
Brown
On June 14, 2006, a purported class action lawsuit, captioned ., was filed against certain former Intermix directors and officers in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The plaintiff asserted claims for alleged violations of Section 14a of the Exchange Act and SEC Rule 14a-9, as well as control person liability under Section 20a. The plaintiff alleged that certain defendants disseminated false and misleading definitive proxy statements on two occasions: one on December 30, 2003 in connection with the shareholder vote on January 29, 2004 on the election of directors and ratification of financing transactions with certain entities of VantagePoint, and another on August 25, 2005 in connection with the shareholder vote on the FIM Transaction. The complaint named as defendants certain VantagePoint related entities, the former general counsel and the members of the Intermix Board who were incumbent on the dates of the respective proxy statements. Intermix was not named as a defendant, but has certain indemnity obligations to the former officer and director defendants in connection with these claims and allegations. On August 25, 2006, plaintiff amended his complaint to add certain investment banks (the "Investment Banks") as defendants. Intermix has certain indemnity obligations to the Investment Banks as well. Plaintiff amended his complaint again on September 27, 2006, which defendants moved to dismiss. On February 9, 2007, the case was transferred to Judge George H. King, the judge assigned to the action, on the grounds that it raises substantially related questions of law and fact as , and would entail substantial duplication of labor if heard by different judges. On June 11, 2007, Judge King ordered the case be consolidated with the action, ordered plaintiffs' counsel to file a consolidated first amended complaint, and further ordered the parties to file a joint brief on defendants' contemplated motion to dismiss the consolidated first amended complaint. On July 11, 2007, plaintiffs filed the consolidated first amended complaint, which defendants moved to dismiss. By order dated January 17, 2008, Judge King granted defendants' motion to dismiss the 2003 proxy claims (concerning VantagePoint transactions) and the 2005 proxy claims (concerning the FIM Transaction), as well as a claim against the VantagePoint entities alleging unjust enrichment. The court found it unnecessary to rule on dismissal of the remaining claims, which are related to the 2005 FIM Transaction, because the dismissal disposed of those claims. On February 8, 2008, plaintiffs filed a consolidated Second Amended Complaint, which defendants moved to dismiss on February 28, 2008. By order dated July 15, 2008, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants' motion
Jim Brown v. Brett C. Brewer, et al
LeBoyer
LeBoyer
Brown
LeBoyer
 
 
to dismiss. The 2003 claims and the claims against the Investment Banks were dismissed with prejudice. The Section 14a and Section 20a, as well as the breach of fiduciary duty claims related to the FIM Transaction, remain against the officer and director defendants and the VantagePoint defendants. On October 6, 2008, defendants filed a partial motion for summary judgment seeking dismissal of the Section 14a, Section 20 and state law disclosure claims. On November 10, 2008, Judge King denied the motion without prejudice. On November 14, 2008, plaintiff filed a motion for class certification to which defendants filed their opposition on January 14, 2009. On June 22, 2009, the court granted plaintiff's motion for class certification, certifying a class of all holders of Intermix Media, Inc. common stock, from July 18, 2005 through consummation of the News Corporation merger, who were allegedly harmed by defendants' improper conduct as set forth in the complaint. Fact discovery has been completed, and expert discovery is proceeding. Defendants are preparing a motion for summary judgment, which must be filed by October 13, 2009. No trial date has been set yet.
News America Marketing
On January 18, 2006, Valassis Communications, Inc. ("Valassis") filed a complaint against News America Incorporated, News America Marketing FSI, LLC and News America Marketing Services, In-Store, LLC (collectively "News America") in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. Valassis alleges that News America possesses monopoly power in a claimed in-store advertising and promotions market (the "in-store market") and has used that power to gain an unfair advantage over Valassis in a purported market for coupons distributed by free-standing inserts ("FSIs"). Valassis alleges that News America is attempting to monopolize the purported FSI market by leveraging its alleged monopoly power in the purported in-store market, thereby allegedly violating Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, as amended (the "Sherman Act"). Valassis further alleges that News America has unlawfully bundled the sale of in-store marketing products with the sale of FSIs and that such bundling constitutes unlawful tying in violation of Sections 1 and 3 of the Sherman Act. Additionally, Valassis alleges that News America is predatorily pricing its FSI products in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act. Valassis also asserts that News America violated various state antitrust statutes and has tortuously interfered with Valassis' actual or expected business relationships. Valassis' complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, fees and costs. On April 20, 2006, News America moved to dismiss Valassis' complaint in its entirety for failure to state a cause of action. On September 28, 2006, the Magistrate Judge issued a Report and Recommendation granting the motion. On October 16, 2006, Valassis filed an Amended Complaint, alleging the same causes of action. On November 17, 2006, News America answered the three federal antitrust claims and moved to dismiss the remaining nine state law claims. On March 23, 2007, the court granted News America's motion and dismissed the nine state law claims. The parties engaged in discovery, which was combined with the California and Michigan state cases discussed below, and is now completed. The parties have exchanged expert reports and have filed summary judgment motions in the federal action. No hearing date has been set for the summary judgment motions. The assigned judge recused himself in February 2009 resulting in the previously set April 2009 trial date being taken off calendar. No new trial date has been set, and the new judge has said that the pending summary judgment motion will not be decided until after the trial in the Michigan state case. (See Note 24  Subsequent Events)
On March 9, 2007, Valassis filed a two-count complaint in Michigan state court against News America. That complaint, which was based on the same factual allegations as the federal complaint discussed above, alleged that News America tortuously interfered with Valassis' business relationships and that News America unfairly competed with Valassis. The complaint sought injunctive relief, damages, fees and costs. On May 4, 2007, News America filed a motion to dismiss or, in the alternative stay, that complaint. On August 14, 2007, the court denied the motion. On July 7, 2008, Valassis filed an Amended Complaint alleging the same causes of action, based on essentially the same factual allegations and seeking the same relief. News America moved to dismiss the Amended Complaint and on October 10, 2008, the court denied the motion. The parties completed discovery, which was combined with the federal case discussed above and the California state case discussed below. The court denied News America's motion for summary judgment in January 2009. Trial commenced on May 27, 2009. On July 23, 2009, a jury in the Michigan state court returned a verdict in the amount of $300 million for Valassis. On August 7, 2009, the court entered judgment on the jury's verdict and ordered that interest on the judgment will accrue from March 9, 2007, the date the state court complaint was filed, in a total amount to be calculated at the time of payment of the judgment. News America intends to file a motion for new trial. If that motion is denied, News America intends to appeal and post a bond for $25 million, the maximum bond required under Michigan law. Based on the Company's review of the record in this case, including discussion with and analysis by counsel of the bases for News America's appeal, the Company has determined that News America has a number of strong arguments available on appeal and, although there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome, the Company is confident that the judgment against News America will ultimately be reversed, or remanded for a new trial in which, the Company believes, News America would prevail. As a result, the Company has concluded that it is not probable that Valassis will ultimately prevail in this matter; therefore, the Company has not recorded any liability for this judgment.
 
 
On March 12, 2007, Valassis filed a three-count complaint in California state court against News America. That complaint, which is based on the same factual allegations as the federal complaint discussed above, alleges that News America has violated the Cartwright Act (California's state antitrust law) by unlawfully tying its FSI products to its in-store products, has violated California's Unfair Practices Act by predatorily pricing its FSI products, and has unfairly competed with Valassis. Valassis' California complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, fees and costs. On May 4, 2007, News America filed a motion to dismiss or, in the alternative stay, that complaint. On June 28, 2007, the court issued a tentative ruling denying the motion and reassigned the case to the Complex Litigation Program. On July 19, 2007, the court denied the motion. The California state court case was stayed pending the outcome of Michigan state court trial.
News America believes that all of the claims in each of the complaints filed by Valassis are without merit and it intends to defend itself vigorously. As noted above, the Company is confident that the judgment against News America in the Michigan state court litigation will ultimately be reversed, or remanded for a new trial in which, the Company believes, News America would prevail. (See Note 24  Subsequent Events)
Other
Other than previously disclosed in the notes to these consolidated financial statements, the Company is party to several purchase and sale arrangements which become exercisable over the next ten years by the Company or the counter-party to the agreement. In the next twelve months, none of these arrangements that become exercisable are material. Purchase arrangements that are exercisable by the counter-party to the agreement, and that are outside the sole control of the Company are accounted for in accordance with EITF D-98. Accordingly, the fair values of such purchase arrangements are classified in Redeemable noncontrolling interests.
The Company experiences routine litigation in the normal course of its business. The Company believes that none of its pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
The Company's operations are subject to tax in various domestic and international jurisdictions and as a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. The Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of all pending tax matters and does not currently anticipate that the ultimate resolution of pending tax matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity.
NOTE 17. PENSIONS AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
The Company participates in and/or sponsors pension and savings plans of various types in a variety of jurisdictions covering, in aggregate, substantially all employees. As of January 1, 2008, the major pension plans and medical plans are closed to new participants (with the exception of groups covered by collective bargaining agreements). The Company has a legally enforceable obligation to contribute to some plans and is not required to contribute to others. Non-U.S. plans include both employee contributory and employee non-contributory defined benefit plans and accumulation plans covering all eligible employees. The plans in the United States include both defined benefit pension plans and employee non-contributory and employee contributory accumulation plans covering all eligible employees. The Company makes contributions in accordance with applicable laws or contract terms in each jurisdiction in which the Company operates. The Company's benefit obligation is calculated using several assumptions which the Company reviews on a regular basis.
The funded status of the plans can change from year to year but the assets of the funded plans has been sufficient to pay all benefits that came due in each of fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.
 
 
The Company uses a June 30 measurement date for all pension and postretirement benefit plans. The following table sets forth the change in the benefit obligation for the Company's benefit plans:
 
 
Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of:
 
 
 
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income consist of:
 
Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in fiscal 2010:
 
Accumulated pension benefit obligations at June 30, 2009 and 2008 were $2,298 million and $2,461 million, respectively. Below is information about funded and unfunded pension plans.
 
Below is information about pension plans in which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds fair value of the plan assets.
 
 
 
The components of net periodic costs were as follows:
 
 
N/A - not applicable
The following assumed health care cost trend rates at June 30 were also used in accounting for postretirement benefits:
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement health care plan. The effect of a one percentage point increase and one percentage point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following effects on the results for fiscal 2009:
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the estimated benefit payments for the next five fiscal years, and in aggregate for the five fiscal years thereafter. The expected benefits are estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company's benefit obligation at the end of the fiscal year and include benefits attributable to estimated future employee service:
 
The above table shows expected benefits payments for the postretirement benefits after adjusting for U.S. Medicare subsidy receipts. The annual receipts are expected to range from $1 to $2 million.
The Company's investment strategy for its pension plans is to maximize the long-term rate of return on plan assets within an acceptable level of risk in order to minimize the cost of providing pension benefits while maintaining adequate funding levels. The Company's practice is to conduct a periodic strategic review of its asset allocation. The Company's current broad strategic targets are to have a pension asset portfolio comprising of 54% equity securities, 38% fixed income securities, 1% in real estate and 7% in cash and other instruments. In developing the expected long-term rate of return, the Company considered the pension asset portfolio's past average rate of returns and future return expectations of the various asset classes. A portion of the other allocation is reserved in short-term cash to provide for expected benefits to be paid in short term. The Company's equity portfolios are managed in such a way as to achieve optimal diversity. The Company's fixed income portfolio is investment grade in the aggregate. The Company does not manage any assets internally.
The Company's benefit plan weighted-average asset allocations, by asset category, are as follows:
 
The Company contributes to multi-employer plans that provide pension and health and welfare benefits to certain employees under collective bargaining agreements. The contributions to these plans were $120 million, $116 million and $114 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, the Company has defined contribution plans for the benefit of substantially all employees meeting certain eligibility requirements. Employer contributions to such plans were $199 million, $186 million and $115 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The Company expects to continue making discretionary contributions to the plans during fiscal 2010 and in aggregate the pension contributions are expected to be approximately $55 million.
 
 
NOTE 18. INCOME TAXES
(Loss) income before income tax expense was attributable to the following jurisdictions:
 
Significant components of the Company's (benefit) provision for income taxes were as follows:
 
The reconciliation of income tax attributable to continuing operations computed at the statutory rate to income tax expense was:
 
 
 
 
The following is a summary of the components of the deferred tax accounts:
 
The Company had net current deferred tax assets of $3 million and $4 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and non-current deferred tax assets of $143 million and $144 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company also had non-current deferred tax liabilities of $3,276 million and $5,456 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
At June 30, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion of net operating and $3.6 billion of capital loss carryforwards available to offset future taxable income. The majority of these net operating loss carryforwards, if not utilized to reduce taxable income in future periods, will expire in varying amounts between fiscal 2010 and 2026, with a significant portion, approximately $600 million relating to foreign operations, expiring within the next three fiscal years. While approximately $1 billion of the capital loss carryforwards expire in three years, the remaining capital loss carryforwards are in jurisdictions where they do not expire. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management evaluates a variety of factors in considering whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will ultimately be realized. Management considers earnings expectations, the existence of taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies, and the periods in which estimated losses can be utilized. Based upon this analysis, management has concluded that it is more likely than not that the Company will not realize all of the benefits of its deferred tax assets. In particular, this is due to the uncertainty of generating capital gains, as well as generating taxable income within the requisite period in various foreign jurisdictions and the uncertainty of fully utilizing the capital losses and net operating losses before they expire through tax planning strategies or reversing taxable temporary differences in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, valuation allowances of $1.4 billion have been established to reflect the expected realization of the deferred tax assets as of June 30, 2009 and 2008.
The following table sets forth the change in the accrual for uncertain tax positions, excluding interest and penalties:
 
The Company recognizes interest and penalty charges related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense, which is consistent with the recognition in prior reporting periods. The Company had recorded liabilities for accrued interest of $111 million and $342 million as of June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The Company is subject to tax in various domestic and international jurisdictions and, as a matter of ordinary course, the Company is regularly audited by Federal, state and foreign tax authorities. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, certain audits were completed. Due to the completion of these audits, certain tax matters were resolved, including the amounts of certain deductions. As a
 
 
result, the Company has reduced its accrual for uncertain tax positions, net of an increase in current liabilities, by approximately $1.1 billion (including interest) as of June 30, 2009 and has recognized a non-cash tax benefit of approximately $1.1 billion for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The Company has reclassified approximately $300 million into current income taxes payable with respect to adjustments from these audits.
The Company believes it has appropriately accrued for the expected outcome of all other pending tax matters and does not currently anticipate that the ultimate resolution of other pending tax matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial condition, future results of operations or liquidity. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits at June 30, 2009 of $458 million, approximately $384 million would affect the Company's effective income tax rate, if and when recognized in future fiscal years.
The Company does not presently anticipate such uncertain income tax positions will significantly increase or decrease in the next 12 months; however, actual developments in this area could differ from those currently expected.
The Internal Revenue Service has commenced examining the Company's returns for the period ending June 30, 2005 and fiscal years 2006 and 2007. Additionally, the Company's income tax returns for the years 2000 through 2008 are subject to examination in various foreign jurisdictions.
The Company has not provided for possible U.S. taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are considered to be reinvested indefinitely. Calculation of the unrecognized deferred tax liability for temporary differences related to these earnings is not practicable. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested amounted to approximately $5.3 billion at June 30, 2009.
NOTE 19. SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The Company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in eight segments. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company reclassified STAR, which develops, produces and distributes television programming in Asia, from the Television segment to the Cable Network Programming segment. This reclassification was the result of a restructuring to combine the sales and distribution operations of the STAR channels with those of the Company's other international cable businesses. In addition, the Magazines and Inserts segment has been renamed the Integrated Marketing Services segment. The Company has revised its segment information for prior fiscal years to conform to the fiscal 2010 presentation. The Company's eight segments are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's operating segments have been determined in accordance with the Company's internal management structure, which is organized based on operating activities. The Company evaluates performance based upon several factors, of which the primary financial measures are segment operating income (loss) and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.
Segment operating income (loss) does not include: Impairment and restructuring charges, equity earnings (losses) of affiliates, interest expense, net, interest income, other, net, income tax expense and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. The Company believes that information about segment operating income (loss) assists all users of the Company's consolidated financial statements by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company's portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing insight into both operations and the other factors that affect reported results.
Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization is defined as segment operating income (loss) plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments and eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense includes the depreciation of property and equipment, as well as amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. Amortization of cable distribution investments represents a reduction against revenues over the term of a carriage arrangement and, as such, it is excluded from segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.
Total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are non-GAAP measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures do not reflect cash available to fund requirements. These measures exclude items, such as impairment and restructuring charges, which are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization also excludes depreciation and amortization which are also significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance.
Management believes that total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business. Total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization provide management, investors and equity analysts measures to analyze operating performance of the Company's business and its enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data, although historical results, including total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, may not be indicative of future results (as operating performance is highly contingent on many factors, including customer tastes and preferences).
 
 
Intersegment revenues, generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment, of approximately $910 million, $842 million and $1,030 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment. Intersegment operating (loss) profit generated primarily by the Filmed Entertainment segment of approximately $(4) million, $23 million and $5 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, have been eliminated within the Filmed Entertainment segment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Geographic Segments
 
 
 
There is no material reliance on any single customer. Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of customers.
Australasia comprises Australia, Asia, Fiji, Papua New Guinea and New Zealand.
NOTE 20. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Prior to fiscal 2008, earnings per share ("EPS") was computed individually for the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock and net income was apportioned to both Class A stockholders and Class B stockholders on a ratio of 1.2 to 1, respectively, in accordance with the rights of the stockholders as described in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation. In order to give effect to this apportionment when determining EPS, the weighted average Class A Common Stock was increased by 20% (the "Adjusted Class") and was then compared to the sum of the weighted average Class B Common Stock and the weighted average Adjusted Class. The resulting percentage was then applied to the Net income to determine the apportionment for the Class A stockholders, with the balance attributable to the Class B stockholders. Subsequent to the final fiscal 2007 dividend, shares of Class A Common Stock no longer carry the right to a greater dividend than shares of Class B Common Stock and, therefore, Net income is allocated equally to Class A and Class B stockholders. Accordingly, since the apportionment of earnings has been eliminated as required by the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company has presented the earnings of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock as a single class since fiscal 2008.
 
 
The following tables set forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share under SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share" ("SFAS No. 128"):
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 21. QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
 
NOTE 22. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
NOTE 23. ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
 
 
The following table sets forth the components of Other, net included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations:
 
 
NOTE 24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, the Company originally considered subsequent events through August 12, 2009, which was the date the Company's consolidated financial statements were issued. As a result of the Company filing a Form 8-K, financial statements and other affected financial information for the periods included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 have been updated to reflect retrospective adjustments resulting from (1) the changes in the Company's segment reporting as a result of STAR being reported in the Cable Network Programming segment, (2) the change in presentation of its consolidated statements of operations for the elimination of the caption "Operating (loss) income", (3) the adoption of SFAS No. 160 and (4) certain explanatory disclosures. Accordingly, the Company has updated its consideration of subsequent events through February 12, 2010.
As mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the Company adopted SFAS No. 160 on July 1, 2009. SFAS No. 160 required the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing minority interests to be applied retrospectively. The Company's financial statements reflect the presentation and disclosure requirements for all periods presented. All other requirements of SFAS No. 160 are to be applied prospectively. The effects of the initial adoption of SFAS No. 160 on the Company's consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2009 and 2008 was that Minority interest in subsidiaries has been separated into two accounts: Redeemable noncontrolling interests of $343 million and $363 million, respectively, and Noncontrolling interests of $408 million and $631 million, respectively. The effect of the adoption on the consolidated statements of operations was that Minority interest in subsidiaries, net of tax is now presented as Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. In addition, in the consolidated statements of cash flows, Purchase of subsidiary shares from noncontrolling interest is now classified as a financing activity whereas it was previously included as an investing activity as part of Acquisitions, net of cash acquired.
In August 2009, the Company declared a dividend of $0.06 per share on both its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, which was paid in October 2009 to stockholders of record on September 9, 2009. The related total aggregate dividend paid to stockholders in October 2009 was approximately $157 million.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company renewed its rights to broadcast Italy's National League Football through fiscal 2012. The Company expects to pay approximately $1.7 billion over the term of the agreement.
On August 25, 2009, NAI, a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company as defined in Rule 3-10(h) of Regulation S-X, entered into an indenture, with the Company, as Guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee (the "Indenture"). In August 2009, NAI issued $400 million of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2020 and $600 million of 6.90% Senior Notes due 2039. The net proceeds received of approximately $989 million will be used for general corporate purposes. These notes were issued under the Indenture.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company entered into a long-term supply contract pursuant to which the Company will purchase ink for its newspaper printing facilities in the United Kingdom from a third party through fiscal 2022. The Company will pay approximately $400 million over the term of the contract.
 
 
In December 2009, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement with Sky Deutschland to subscribe to up to 49 million in newly registered shares of Sky Deutschland pursuant to a capital increase. Sky Deutschland completed this capital increase in January 2010 and, accordingly, the Company purchased 49 million newly registered shares of Sky Deutschland at a price of 2.25 per new share for an aggregate cost of approximately $158 million. As a result, News Corporation's stake in Sky Deutschland increased to approximately 45%.
In January 2010, the Company sold its 33% interest in STOXX, Ltd. ("STOXX"), a European market index provider, for approximately $300 million in cash and additional consideration of up to approximately $40 million conditioned upon STOXX achieving specific performance objectives.
As a result of pretrial proceedings and negotiations that occurred in late January 2010 related to the complaint filed against News America in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, on January 30, 2010, the Company announced that News America had reached a settlement agreement with Valassis pursuant to which all claims filed by Valassis in all matters have been dismissed with prejudice. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan oversaw the settlement discussions and approved the terms of the settlement. As part of the settlement, News America paid Valassis $500 million and entered into a ten-year shared mail distribution agreement with Valassis Direct Mail, a Valassis subsidiary. Additionally, the parties also have agreed to a process by which the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan may assess certain future business practices of News America and Valassis. In connection with the settlement, the federal court case has been dismissed with prejudice. In addition, the judgment in the Michigan state court case from July 2009 has been satisfied with all related appeals dismissed, and the California state court case has been dismissed with prejudice. As a result of the settlement, the Company has recorded a charge of $500 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2010. The cost of the new distribution agreement, which will be entered into on a fair value basis, will be accounted for prospectively, consistent with the accounting for other similar agreements.
In February 2010, the Company declared a dividend of $0.075 per share on both of its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, which is payable on April 14, 2010. The record date for determining dividend entitlements is March 10, 2010.
In February 2010, Dow Jones announced that it had entered into an agreement with CME Group Inc. ("CME") to form a joint venture to operate a global financial index service business. Pursuant to the agreement, Dow Jones and CME will own 10% and 90%, respectively, of the joint venture, to which Dow Jones will contribute its Dow Jones Indexes business valued at $675 million and CME will contribute a business which provides certain market data services valued at $608 million. Dow Jones will retain a key role in the management of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The new joint venture will raise approximately $613 million in third-party debt that will be used to a pay a $608 million distribution to Dow Jones.
NOTE 25. SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR INFORMATION
In May 2007, NAI, a 100% owned subsidiary of the Company as defined in Rule 3-10(h) of Regulation S-X, entered into the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement provides a $2.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a sub-limit of $600 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. NAI may request an increase in the amount of the credit facility up to a maximum amount of $2.5 billion. Borrowings are in U.S. dollars only, while letters of credit are issuable in U.S. dollars or Euros. The significant terms of the agreement include the requirement that the Company maintain specific leverage ratios and limitations on secured indebtedness. The Company pays a facility fee of 0.08% regardless of facility usage. The Company pays interest for borrowings at LIBOR plus 0.27% and pays commission fees on letters of credit at 0.27%. The Company pays an additional fee of 0.05% if borrowings under the facility exceed 50% of the committed facility. The interest and fees are based on the Company's current debt rating. The maturity date is in May 2012, however, NAI may request that the Lenders' commitments be renewed for up to two additional one year periods.
The Parent Guarantor presently guarantees the senior public indebtedness of NAI and the guarantee is full and unconditional. The supplemental condensed consolidating financial information of the Parent Guarantor should be read in conjunction with these consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with rules and regulations of the SEC, the Company uses the equity method to account for the results of all of the non-guarantor subsidiaries, representing substantially all of the Company's consolidated results of operations, excluding certain intercompany eliminations.
The following condensed consolidating financial statements present the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of NAI, the Company and the subsidiaries of the Company and the eliminations and reclassifications necessary to arrive at the information for the Company on a consolidated basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Investments in the Company's subsidiaries, for purposes of the supplemental consolidating presentation, are accounted for by their parent companies under the equity method of accounting whereby earnings of subsidiaries are reflected in the parent company's investment account and earnings.
(2) The guarantees of NAI's senior public indebtedness constitute senior indebtedness of the Company, and rank pari passu with all present and future senior indebtedness of the Company. Because the factual basis underlying the obligations created pursuant to the various facilities and other obligations constituting senior indebtedness of the Company differ, it is not possible to predict how a court in bankruptcy would accord priorities among the obligations of the Company.
 








