FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20110202161135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2011, News Corporation (the "Company") released its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 2, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Corporation (NASDAQ: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) today reported second quarter total segment operating income
NEW YORK, NY, February 2, 2011 
(1)
of $1.29 billion compared with $712 million of total segment operating income reported a year ago. The prior year's second quarter results included a $500 million litigation settlement charge at the Company's integrated marketing services business, which is part of the Publishing segment. Excluding this charge, second quarter segment operating profit increased 6% over the prior year. This growth reflects significant profit increases at the Cable Network Programming and Television segments, partially offset by decreases at the Filmed Entertainment and Other segments.
In the second quarter, the Company recorded a $275 million pre-tax charge for the impairment of goodwill related to the Digital Media Group and an organizational restructuring at Myspace. Including the impact of these charges, the Company reported second quarter net income of $642 million ($0.24 per share) compared with net income of $254 million ($0.10 per share) in the second quarter a year ago. Excluding the net income effects in both years of one-time items, principally consisting of charges related to impairment, restructuring and business dispositions, as well as the litigation settlement charge in the prior year, second quarter adjusted earnings per share
(2)
this year are $0.29 compared with the adjusted year-ago result of $0.25, an increase of 16%.
Commenting on the results, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch said:
"News Corporation's second quarter results demonstrate the mounting vigor of our global channels business. In the U.S. market, our cable channels are still expanding and adding subscribers, while increasing their revenues and profits at a double-digit pace on the strength of affiliate fee increases and buoyant advertising markets. I am also pleased with the continued recovery of our U.S. broadcasting business, including our local TV stations and the Fox Broadcasting Company, which posted its best quarterly profit in two and a half years.
"Momentum at our international businesses is equally brisk, with international channel revenues in the quarter up 20% on particular strength in Latin America and our STAR channels in India. And at SKY Italia, operating results indicate that
 
 
the business is back on track, achieving its highest quarterly net subscriber additions in the last two years.
"I am confident that the significant positive momentum from these businesses will not only continue to drive News Corporation's growth for the remainder of the fiscal year, but also strengthen the Company for growth in the years to come."
REVIEW OF SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS
Total Segment Operating Income
 
 
Cable Network Programming
Cable Network Programming reported second quarter segment operating income of $735 million, a 22% or $131 million increase over the second quarter a year ago, driven by a 12% increase in revenue despite the adverse impact of a distribution contract renewal dispute at the domestic cable channels. Operating income contributions from the domestic channels increased 16%, and the Company's international cable channels grew earnings 37%.
Advertising revenue at the domestic cable channels grew 12% in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 over the prior year period due to volume and pricing strength. The international cable channels' advertising revenue grew 27% over the prior year, primarily due to improving ad markets and stronger viewership trends, led by our STAR channels. Affiliate revenue growth of 10% at the domestic cable channels and 17% at the international cable channels for the second quarter primarily reflect higher rates and subscribers, with international increases led by Fox International Channels growth in Latin America and Asia.
 
 
Filmed Entertainment
Filmed Entertainment reported second quarter segment operating income of $189 million, compared with $324 million reported in the same period a year ago. The decline primarily reflects the difficult comparison to the prior year's strong results, which were led by the worldwide home entertainment success of Ice Age: . Current year second quarter film results include the successful theatrical performances of (winner of the Golden Globe for Best Actress and nominated for five Academy Awards including Best Picture) and (with more than $370 million of worldwide box office receipts to date), as well as launch costs for the worldwide releases of and  This quarter also includes the worldwide home entertainment performance of Predators and the continued worldwide home entertainment and pay-TV performance of
Dawn of the Dinosaurs
Black Swan
The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader
Unstoppable
Gulliver's Travels.
Avatar.
Television
Television reported second quarter segment operating income of $151 million, an increase of $122 million versus the same period a year ago, led by a $121 million increase in revenues at Fox Television Stations (FTS) and FOX Broadcasting Company.
FTS' second quarter contributions increased more than 50% from the same period a year ago, driven by a 20% rise in revenue. This growth reflects a stronger overall local advertising market, particularly in the automotive and financial sectors, as well as increased levels of political advertising.
FOX Broadcasting Company's second quarter results improved 24%, as increased advertising revenue from National Football League games and general entertainment programming more than offset lower advertising revenue from this year's Major League Baseball post season due to lower ratings and one less game than the prior year.
Direct Broadcast Satellite Television
SKY Italia reported a second quarter segment operating loss of $12 million, which is an improvement of $18 million versus the $30 million operating loss reported a year ago. Local currency revenue increased slightly, driven by higher advertising and subscription revenues compared with the prior year quarter. Overall costs decreased as lower programming costs were partially offset by increased subscriber acquisition costs due to higher subscriber activations. SKY Italia's 4.87 million quarter-end subscriber base reflects the net addition of approximately 71,000 subscribers during the quarter, representing the highest level of net additions in two years.
Publishing
Publishing reported second quarter segment operating income of $380 million, a $470 million improvement over the $90 million operating loss reported a year ago, which primarily reflects the prior year's $500 million litigation settlement charge at the
 
 
integrated marketing services business. Excluding this charge, segment operating income decreased $30 million from last year's second quarter as increased advertising revenues in all three of our major newspaper markets were more than offset by lower contributions at HarperCollins and the absence of $17 million in earnings contributions from the Dow Jones Index business reflecting its disposition in March 2010.
Other
The Other segment reported a second quarter operating loss of $156 million, which is $31 million greater than the prior year. This decline was primarily due to increased losses at the Digital Media Group, stemming largely from lower search and advertising revenues at Myspace. These declines were partially offset by improved operating results at Fox Mobile, prior to its sale in December, and at the international outdoor business.
DIVIDENDS
The Company has declared a dividend of $0.075 per Class A share and Class B share. This dividend is payable on April 20, 2011 with a record date for determining dividend entitlements of March 16, 2011.
 
 
REVIEW OF EQUITY EARNINGS (LOSSES) OF AFFILIATES' RESULTS
Fiscal 2011 second quarter earnings from affiliates were $67 million as compared to $58 million in the same period a year ago. This improvement was driven by improved operating results at BSkyB, partially offset by the Company's increased share of losses at Sky Deutschland, resulting from the increased ownership position from a year-ago.
The Company's share of equity earnings (losses) of affiliates is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange Rates
Average foreign exchange rates used in the year-to-date profit results are as follows:
 
To receive a copy of this press release through the Internet, access News Corp's corporate Web site located at http://www.newscorp.com.
Audio from News Corp's conference call with analysts on the second quarter results can be heard live on the Internet at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Standard Time today. To listen to the call, visit http://www.newscorp.com.
This document contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to changes in global economic, business, competitive market and regulatory factors. More detailed information about these and other factors that could affect future results is contained in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The "forward-looking statements" included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any "forward-looking statements" to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 1  ADJUSTED NET INCOME AND ADJUSTED EPS
The calculation of net income and earnings per share excluding Impairment and restructuring charges, the litigation settlement and "Other, net" may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies, since companies and investors may differ as to what type of events warrant adjustment. Net income and earnings per share excluding Impairment and restructuring charges, the litigation settlement and "Other, net" are not measures of performance under generally accepted accounting principles and should not be construed as substitutes for consolidated net income and earnings per share as determined under GAAP as a measure of performance. However, management uses these measures in comparing the Company's historical performance and believes that they provide meaningful and comparable information to investors to assist in their analysis of our performance relative to prior periods and our competitors.
The Company uses net income and earnings per share excluding Impairment and restructuring charges, the litigation settlement and "Other, net" to evaluate the performance of the Company's operations exclusive of certain items that impact the comparability of results from period to period.
The following table reconciles reported net income and reported diluted earnings per share ("EPS") to adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share.
 
 
 
NOTE 2  TOTAL SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME AND SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) BEFORE DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income (loss), and management uses total segment operating income as a measure of the performance of operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. Total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are non-GAAP measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income (loss), cash flow and other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures do not reflect cash available to fund requirements. These measures exclude items, such as impairment and restructuring charges, which are significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance. Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization also excludes depreciation and amortization which are also significant components in assessing the Company's financial performance.
Management believes that total segment operating income and segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization are appropriate measures for evaluating the operating performance of the Company's business and provide investors and equity analysts a measure to analyze operating performance of the Company's business and enterprise value against historical data and competitors' data. Total segment operating income and segment operating income before depreciation and amortization is the primary measure used by our chief operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of and allocate resources to the Company's business segments.
Total segment operating income does not include: Impairment and restructuring charges, Equity earnings (losses) of affiliates, Interest expense, net, Interest income, Other, net, Income tax expense and Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
Segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization is defined as segment operating income (loss) plus depreciation and amortization and the amortization of cable distribution investments and eliminates the variable effect across all business segments of depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense includes the depreciation of property and equipment, as well as amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. Amortization of cable distribution investments represents a reduction against revenues over the term of a carriage arrangement and, as such, it is excluded from segment operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization.
 
 
The following table reconciles segment operating income before depreciation and amortization to income before income tax expense.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


