FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20111021202151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 21, 2011, News Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the general results of the voting at its Annual Meeting of Stockholders held today. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
This Form 8-K is being furnished solely to satisfy the requirements of Regulation FD in light of the disclosure. The furnishing of the information in this Item 7.01 is not intended to, and does not, constitute a representation that such furnishing is required by Regulation FD or that the information in this Item 7.01 is material information that is not otherwise publicly available.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 21, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
N E W S R E L E A S E
 
 
NEWS CORPORATION DIRECTORS ELECTED
 
 
 Following its Annual Meeting of Stockholders today, News Corporation announced that all Directors were elected, the advisory vote was in favor of executive compensation, and the other management proposals were approved. The floor proposal regarding an independent Chair of the Board was not approved.
October 21, 2011  Los Angeles, CA
Voting results are being finalized and will be filed with the SEC early next week.
News Corporation (NASDAQ: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of June 30, 2011 of approximately US$62 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$33 billion. News Corporation is a diversified global media company with operations in six industry segments: cable network programming; filmed entertainment; television; direct broadcast satellite television; publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and Latin America.
For more information about News Corporation, please visit
www.newscorp.com
 
 


