FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20110405105048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 5, 2011, News Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it has completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Shine Group, for which the Shine Group shareholders received approximately 290 million in aggregate proceeds.
A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 5, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
N E W S  R E L E A S E
 
 
 
News Corporation Completes Transaction to Acquire Shine Group
 
 
News Corporation today announced it has completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Shine Group, for which the Shine Group shareholders received approximately 290 million in aggregate proceeds.
New York, NY, April 5, 2011
The transaction was approved by the Audit Committee of the News Corporation Board of Directors. The Audit Committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, received advice and a fairness opinion from Centerview Partners, an independent investment bank, and legal advice from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.
News Corporation was advised by Hogan Lovells. J.P. Morgan acted as exclusive financial advisor to Shine Group, with legal advice from Olswang LLP in the U.K. and O'Melveny & Myers LLP in the U.S.
(NASDAQ: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of December 31, 2010 of approximately US$57 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$33 billion. News Corporation is a diversified global media company with operations in six industry segments: cable network programming; filmed entertainment; television; direct broadcast satellite television; publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and Latin America
News Corporation
 
 


