FILE:NWSA/NWSA-8K-20120315170923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On March 15, 2012, News Corporation (the "Company") and funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP announced that they have signed an agreement to sell NDS Group Limited ("NDS") to Cisco Systems Inc. for approximately $5 billion, including the assumption of debt. The Company owns approximately 49% of NDS.
A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: March 15, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 March 15, 2012  News Corporation and funds advised by Permira Advisers LLP announced today that they have signed an agreement to sell NDS Group Limited to Cisco Systems Inc. for approximately $5 billion, including the assumption of debt. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory review in the U.S. and elsewhere, and is expected to close during the second half of calendar year 2012.
NEW YORK, NY
About News Corporation
(NASDAQ: NWS, NWSA; ASX: NWS, NWSLV) had total assets as of December 31, 2011 of approximately US$60 billion and total annual revenues of approximately US$34 billion. News Corporation is a diversified global media company with operations in six industry segments: cable network programming; filmed entertainment; television; direct broadcast satellite television; publishing; and other. The activities of News Corporation are conducted principally in the United States, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, Australia, Asia and Latin America.
News Corporation
About Permira
is a European private equity firm with global reach. The Permira funds, raised from pension funds and other institutions, make long-term investments in companies with the ambition of transforming their performance and driving sustainable growth. Founded in 1985, the firm advises funds with a total committed capital of approximately 20 billion.
Permira
About NDS
. creates the technologies and applications that enable pay-TV operators to securely deliver digital content to TV STBs (set-top boxes), DVRs (digital video recorders), PCs, mobiles and other multimedia devices. Over 90 of the world's leading pay-TV platforms rely on NDS solutions to protect and enhance their business.
NDS Group Ltd
For more information about News Corporation, please visit www.newscorp.com.
 
 


