FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20030730091552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) - July 30, 2003 FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) TENNESSEE 000-4491 62-0803242 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of Incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 165 MADISON AVENUE MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 38103 (Address of Principal Executive Office) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code - (901) 523-4444
ITEM 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure First Tennessee National Corporation ("Corporation") announced today that management has been delegated the authority within defined limits to purchase up to the total principal amount outstanding of the Corporation's 6.75% November 2005 subordinated debt ($75 million). Since this outstanding debt issue is in the last half of its term, it provides only limited regulatory capital benefit and will be replaced with short-term market rate funds. Today a tender offer was commenced to purchase this debt issue at a price reflecting a formula-driven premium to its par value. Using the formula with the appropriate spread over the benchmark rate as of 1:30 pm CDST yesterday (07/29/03), a premium of 10.8% over par would be paid for the Corporation's debt. Because the Corporation is offering to pay a premium, the tender offer, if completed, will result in a current charge to earnings. The amount of the charge will primarily depend on the amount of the debt issue tendered and purchased in the offer, which is estimated to be between 60 percent and 90 percent of the total principal amount outstanding. Purchase activities are expected to take place during third quarter 2003 and will be managed by FTN Financial Securities Corp., a subsidiary of First Tennessee Bank National Assoc. This item contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information. Those factors are outlined in the recent earnings press release and in more detail in the most current 10-K and 10-Q. The Corporation disclaims any obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements that are made from time to time, to reflect future events or developments.
ITEM 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Corporation's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Exhibit # Description - --------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued 7/30/03 ITEM 9. Regulation FD Disclosure Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the Corporation's press release issued July 30, 2003, related to the announcement of tender offers to purchase certain debt and earnings guidance.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION Date: July 30, 2003 By: /s/James F. Keen ---------------------------------- Name: James F. Keen Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller
Exhibit Index The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 9, is not to be considered "filed" under the Exchange Act, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Corporation's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Exhibit # Description - --------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release issued 7/30/03

Exhibit 99.1 First Tennessee National Corp. to Purchase Subordinated Debt MEMPHIS, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 30, 2003--First Tennessee National Corp. (NYSE: FTN) announced today that management has been delegated the authority within defined limits to purchase up to the total principal amount outstanding of the company's 6.75 percent November 2005 subordinated debt ($75 million). Since this outstanding debt issue is in the last half of its term, it provides only limited regulatory capital benefit and will be replaced with short-term market rate funds. Today a tender offer was commenced to purchase this debt issue at a price reflecting a formula-driven premium to its par value. Using the formula with the appropriate spread over the benchmark rate as of 1:30 pm CDST yesterday (07/29/03), a premium of 10.8 percent over par would be paid for the company's debt. Because the company is offering to pay a premium, the tender offer, if completed, will result in a current charge to earnings. The amount of the charge will primarily depend on the amount of the debt issue tendered and purchased in the offer, which is estimated to be between 60 percent and 90 percent of the total principal amount outstanding. Even with this charge, which is part of this quarter's anticipated initiatives to create future earnings, we confirm the earnings outlook as of July 17, 2003, as provided in our second quarter 2003 earnings press release on that date. Purchase activities are expected to take place during the third quarter of 2003 and will be managed by FTN Financial Securities Corp., a subsidiary of First Tennessee Bank National Assoc. About First Tennessee The First Tennessee National Corp. (NYSE: FTN) family of companies provides financial services to individual and business customers through First Tennessee Bank, which has earned one of the highest customer retention rates of any bank in the country; First Horizon Home Loans, which earned a top-five ranking in customer satisfaction from J.D. Power and Associates; FTN Financial, one of the nation's top underwriters of U.S. government agency securities; and First Horizon Merchant Services, one of the most successful processors of credit card payments for the travel industry. More than 12,000 employees provide financial services through hundreds of offices located in more than 30 states. Our companies have been recognized as some of the nation's best employers by Working Mother, Business Week and Fortune magazines. We were also named one of the nation's 100 best corporate citizens by Business Ethics magazine. More information can be found at www.FirstTennessee.com. This press release contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information. Those factors are outlined in the recent earnings press release and in more detail in the most current 10-K and 10-Q. First Tennessee National Corporation disclaims any obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements that are made from time to time, to reflect future events or developments. CONTACT: The First Tennessee National Corp., Memphis Mark Yates, 901-523-4068 or Kim Cherry, 901-523-4726


