FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20050722092419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrant's telephone number, including area code -
(901) 523-4444
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
ITEM 1.01.    ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
On July 19, 2005, the Board of Directors of the registrant took certain actions which resulted in the amendment of the 1995 Employee Stock Option Plan and the 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan to give the Plans' administrative Committee the authority to extend the post-termination exercise period of options following the death or termination of an option holder, provided that such options may not be extended beyond their original expiration dates. The Committee may exercise this authority on a case by case basis. The change gives the Committee the same discretion under the two older Plans that it presently has under the registrant's shareholder-approved 2003 Equity Compensation Plan.
ITEM 5.03.    AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS;
                       CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR
(a) Amendment to Bylaws
     (1) On July 19, 2005, the registrant's Board of Directors amended the registrant's Bylaws. The amendments were effective immediately. The Bylaws, as amended and restated, are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2.
     (2) The amendments modified and reorganized a number of officer designations and categories (primarily affecting Article FOUR but incidentally affecting a number of other sections that refer to specific officers), and amended the retirement provision (Section 7.1) applicable to directors. The principal change in the retirement provision is an increase in the basic retirement age from 65 to 68.
ITEM 8.01.    OTHER EVENTS
                On March 23, 2005, the registrant's subsidiary, First Tennessee Bank National Association (""), issued 300,000 shares of Class A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (""). That issuance was the subject of the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 24, 2005.
Bank
Bank Preferred Stock
                The Bank has made a Declaration of Covenant dated as of July 20, 2005 ("") in connection with the Bank Preferred Stock. Under the Declaration, the Bank has promised to redeem shares of the Bank Preferred Stock only if and to the extent that the redemption price is equal to or less than the New Equity Amount as of the date of redemption. "" means, on any date, the net proceeds to the Bank or subsidiaries of the Bank received during the six months prior to such date from new issuances of common stock of the Bank or of other securities or combinations of securities that
Declaration
New Equity Amount
, , that the net proceeds of such securities or combinations of securities (A) if issued to any affiliate of the Bank other than its parent company, First Horizon National Corporation (""), shall not qualify as a New Equity Amount and (B) if issued to FHNC shall qualify as a New Equity Amount only if such securities or combinations of securities have been purchased by FHNC with the net proceeds from new issuances of common stock of FHNC or of securities or combinations of securities by FHNC during such six-month period that
provided
however
FHNC
                The covenants in the Declaration run in favor of persons that buy, hold, or sell debt of the Bank during the period that such debt is "" The Bank's 5.05% Subordinated Bank Notes Due January 15, 2015 ("") are the initial Covered Debt. Other debt will replace the Notes as the Covered Debt under the Declaration on the earlier to occur of (x) the date two years prior to the Notes' maturity, or (y) the date the Bank gives notice of a redemption of the Notes such that, or the date Notes are repurchased in such an amount that, the outstanding principal amount of Notes is or will become less than $100 million.
Covered Debt.
Notes
                The Declaration is subject to various additional terms and conditions. The Declaration may be terminated if the holders of at least 51% by principal amount of the Covered Debt so agree, or if the Bank no longer has any long-term indebtedness rated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
                The summary description of the Declaration in this report is qualified in its entirety by the full terms of the Declaration, which are controlling.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

                   The principal office of First Horizon National Corporation (the "Corporation") shall be 165 Madison Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee.
1.1          
Principal Office.
                 The Corporation may have offices at such other places, either within or without the State of Tennessee, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
1.2            
Other Offices.
                   The registered office of the Corporation required to be maintained in the State of Tennessee shall be the same as its principal office and may be changed from time to time as provided by law.
1.3          
Registered Office.
                   Meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation may be held either in the State of Tennessee or elsewhere; but in the absence of notice to the contrary, shareholders' meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in Memphis, Tennessee.
2.1          
Place of Meetings.
                   The holders of a majority of the shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall be requisite, and shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the shareholders, for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law, the Restated Charter of the Corporation, as amended from time to time (the "Charter"), or these Bylaws. In the event a quorum is not obtained at the meeting, the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time and, whether or not a quorum is obtained at the meeting, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in either case without notice, except as otherwise provided by law, other than announcement at the meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which the requisite amount of voting shares shall be represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
2.2          
Quorum and Adjournments.
                   Unless otherwise required by applicable law, written notice of the annual and each special meeting stating the date, time and place of the meeting shall be mailed, postage prepaid, or otherwise delivered to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat at such address as appears on the records of shareholders of the Corporation, at least ten (10) days, but not more than two (2) months, prior to the meeting date. In addition, notice of any special meeting shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the person or persons calling the meeting. In the event of an adjournment of a meeting to a date more than four months after the date fixed for the original meeting or the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, a new notice of the adjourned meeting must be given to shareholders as of the new record date. Any previously scheduled meeting may be postponed, and any special meeting may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date scheduled for such meeting.
2.3          
Notice of Meetings.
                 The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held each year on the third Tuesday in April, or if that day is a legal holiday, on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday, at 11:00 a.m. Memphis time or on such other date and/or at such other time as the Board of Directors may fix by resolution by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. At the meeting, the shareholders shall elect by ballot, by plurality vote, directors to succeed directors in the class of directors whose term expires at the meeting and directors elected by the Board of Directors to fill vacancies in other classes of directors and may transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
2.4            
Annual Meetings.
                 Special meetings of the shareholders for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called by Chairman of the Board and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors. Only such business within the purpose or purposes described in the notice of the meeting may be conducted at the meeting.
2.5            
Special Meetings.
                   Any shareholder may waive in writing notice of any meeting either before, at or after the meeting. Attendance by a shareholder in person or by proxy at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of objection to lack of notice or defective notice and a waiver of objection to consideration of a matter that was not described in the meeting notice unless the shareholder objects in the manner required by law.
2.6          
Waiver of Notice.
                 Unless otherwise required by the Charter, at each meeting of shareholders, each shareholder shall have one vote for each share of stock having voting power registered in the shareholder's name on the records of the Corporation on the record date for that meeting, and every shareholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy appointed by instrument in writing or any other method permitted by law.
2.7            
Voting.
                   At an annual or special meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be acted upon, as shall have been properly brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders. To be properly brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders, business must be (i) in the case of a special meeting called by the Chairman of the Board or at the request of the Board of Directors, specified in the notice of the special meeting (or any supplement thereto), or (ii) in the case of an annual meeting properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the annual or special meeting by a shareholder. For business to be properly brought before such a meeting of shareholders by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the date of the meeting; provided, however, that if fewer than 100 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholders to be timely must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (i) the day on which such notice of the date of such meeting was mailed or (ii) the day on which such public disclosure was made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before a meeting of shareholders (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the shareholder proposing such business and any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such proposal, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such shareholder on the date of such shareholder's notice and by any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such proposal on the date of such shareholder's notice, and (iv) any material interest of the shareholder in such proposal. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.8. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the Chairman should so determine, the Chairman shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
2.8          
Procedures for Bringing Business before Shareholder Meeting.
                 In addition to complying with the provisions of Section 2.8, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in Section 2.8. Nothing in Section 2.8 shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. For such proposals to be acted upon at a meeting, however, compliance with the notice provisions of Section 2.8 is also required.
2.9            
SEC Proxy Rules.
                 The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
3.1            
Powers of Directors.
                 The Board of Directors shall consist of eleven [twelve prior to 11:00 a.m. on April 19, 2005] members. The Board of Directors has the power to change from time to time the number of directors specified in the preceding sentence. Any such change in the number of directors constituting the Corporation's Board Directors must be made exclusively by means of an amendment to these Bylaws adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors then in office. Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation nor residents of the State of Tennessee.
3.2            
Number and Qualifications.
                 Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Charter, the term of each director hereafter elected shall be from the time of his or her election and qualification until the third annual meeting next following such election and until a successor shall have been duly elected and qualified; subject, however, to the right of the removal of any director as provided by law, by the Charter or by these Bylaws.
3.3            
Term of Office.
                 The directors shall be paid for their services on the Board of Directors and on any Committee thereof such compensation (which may include cash, shares of stock of the Corporation and options thereon) and benefits together with reasonable expenses, if any, at such times as may, from time to time, be determined by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors; provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and being compensated therefor.
3.4            
Compensation.
                 The directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may designate an executive committee and other committees, consisting of two or more directors, and may delegate to such committee or committees all such authority of the Board of Directors that it deems desirable, including, without limitation, authority to appoint corporate officers, fix their salaries, and, to the extent such is not provided by law, the Charter or these Bylaws, to establish their authority and responsibility, except that no such committee or committees shall have and exercise the authority of the Board of Directors to:
3.5            
Committees.
                   Except as provided in Section 3.7 with respect to vacancies on the Board of Directors, only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.6 shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a meeting of shareholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (ii) by any shareholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.6. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the date of a meeting; provided, however, that if
3.6          
Procedures for Director Nominations.
fewer than 100 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (i) the day on which such notice of the date of such meeting was mailed or (ii) the day on which such public disclosure was made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person on the date of such shareholder's notice and (d) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or, is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, without limitation, such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (ii) as to the shareholder giving the notice (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such shareholder and any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such nominees and (b) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such shareholder on the date of such shareholder's notice and by any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such nominees on the date of such shareholder's notice. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.6. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the Chairman should so determine, the Chairman shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
                 Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Charter, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or any other cause (except removal from office) shall be filled only by the Board of Directors, provided that a quorum is then in office and present, or only by a majority of the directors then in office, if less than a quorum is then in office or by the sole remaining director. Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from removal from office may be filled by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock or, if the shareholders do not so fill such a vacancy, by a majority of the directors then in office. Directors elected to fill a newly created directorship or other vacancy shall hold office for a term expiring at the next shareholders' meeting at which directors are elected and until such director's successor has been duly elected and qualified. The directors of any class of directors of the Corporation may be removed by the shareholders only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock.
3.7            
Vacancies; Removal from Office.
                 The directors may hold meetings of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof at the principal office of the Corporation in Memphis, Tennessee, or at such other place or places, either in the State of Tennessee or elsewhere, as the Board of Directors or the members of the committee, as applicable, may from time to time determine by resolution or by written consent or as may be specified in the notice of the meeting.
3.8            
Place of Meetings.
                A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, without further notice, if the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned are fixed at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken and if the period of adjournment does not exceed thirty (30) days in any one (1) adjournment. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the vote of a greater number is required by law, the Charter, or these Bylaws.
3.9            
Quorum.
                   Following each annual meeting of shareholders, the newly elected directors, together with the incumbent directors whose terms do not expire at such meeting, shall meet for the purpose of organization, the appointment of officers and the transaction of other business, and, if a majority of the directors be present at such place, day and hour, no prior notice of such meeting shall be required to be given to the directors. The place, day and hour of such meeting may also be fixed by resolution or by written consent of the directors. In addition, the Board of Directors may approve an annual schedule for additional regular meetings of the Board of Directors and of committees thereof.
3.10        
Regular Meetings.
                 Special meetings of the directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President (or as to any committee of the Board of Directors, by the person or
3.11          
Special Meetings.
persons specified in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing the committee) on two days' notice by mail or on one day's notice by telegram or cablegram, or on two hours' notice given personally or by telephone or facsimile transmission to each director (or member of the committee, as appropriate), and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board or Secretary in like manner on the written request of a majority of directors then in office. The notice shall state the day and hour of the meeting and the place where the meeting is to be held. Special meetings of the directors may be held at any time on written waiver of notice or by consent of all the directors, either of which may be given either before, at or after the meeting.
                 The directors may (whether acting in lieu of a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof) take action which they are required or permitted to take, without a meeting, on written consent setting forth the action so taken, signed by all of the directors entitled to vote thereon. If all the directors entitled to vote consent to taking such action without a meeting, the affirmative vote of the number of directors necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting is the act of the Board of Directors or committee, as appropriate.
3.12           
Action without a Meeting.
                   Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof by, or conduct a meeting through the use of, any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A director so participating is deemed to be present in person at such meeting.
3.13         
Telephone Meetings.
                   The officers of the Corporation shall consist of such officers as are required by the Tennessee Business Corporation Act and such other officers, including officers identified in Sections 4.8 through 4.22 below, as the Board of Directors determines from time to time, along with such other officers and assistant officers as may be from time to time determined and appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Article Four. The title of any officer may include any additional descriptive designation determined to be appropriate. Any person may hold two or more offices, except that the President shall not also be the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. The officers, other than the Chairman of the Board, need not be directors, and officers need not be shareholders.
4.1          
Designated Officers.
                   Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4.2, the officers of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Board of Directors at the annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors may delegate to a committee of the Board of Directors: (i) the power to create corporate offices; (ii) the power to define the authority and responsibility of such offices, except to the extent such authority or responsibility would not be consistent with the law or the Charter; and (iii) the power to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation except the offices of the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, any office the incumbent in which is designated by the Board as an Executive Officer (as defined in Section 4.5 hereof), and, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Auditor. In addition, the Board of Directors may delegate to the officers appointed to the Corporation's personnel committee, acting as a committee, the authority to appoint persons to any offices of the Corporation of the level of Vice President and below annually at the personnel committee meeting following the annual meeting of shareholders and to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation of the level of Executive Vice President and below during the period of time between the annual appointment of officers by the Board of Directors or pursuant to this section 4.2 of the Bylaws; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may not delegate such authority with respect to those offices to which a committee of the Board can not appoint persons pursuant to clause (iii) above. Notwithstanding the delegation of authority pursuant to this section 4.2 of the Bylaws, the Board of Directors retains the authority to appoint all officers and such other officers and agents as it shall deem necessary, who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
4.2          
Appointment of Officers.
                 The officers of the Corporation shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year and until their successors are appointed and qualified, subject to the right of removal specified in Section 4.4 of these Bylaws. The designation of a specified term does not grant to any officer any contract rights.
4.3            
Term.
                 If the office of any officer or officers becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors or, if such officer was appointed by a committee, by the committee appointing such officer. Any officer may resign at any time by delivering a written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Secretary, or that Executive Officer who is the Chief Human Resources Officer (as defined in Section 4.16) or to whom that Officer reports, or the designee of any of them, which shall be effective upon delivery unless it specifies a later date acceptable to the Corporation. Any Executive Officer (as defined in Section 4.5 below) shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. The Auditor shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee. Any other officer shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, and in the event the officer was, or could have been, appointed by a committee, then by the affirmative vote of a majority of either such committee or the Board of Directors.
4.4            
Vacancies, Resignations and Removal.
                 "Executive Officers" shall be those officers of the Corporation expressly designated from time to time in a resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors as being executive officers' for purposes of these Bylaws or for purposes of any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The fact that an officer's title contains the word "executive" and appears in a Board resolution shall not, by itself, constitute an executive officer designation as provided in this Section.
4.5            
Executive Officers.
                 The Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, shall fix the compensation of Executive Officers of the Corporation. The compensation of officers who are not Executive Officers shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, by a committee thereof, or by management under such policies and procedures as shall be established by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
4.6            
Compensation.
                 In case of the absence of any officer of the Corporation, or for any reason that the Board of Directors (or, in addition, in the case of any officer appointed by a committee, such committee or any other committee which could appoint such officer pursuant to Section 4.2 of these Bylaws) may deem sufficient, the Board of Directors (or committee, as applicable) may delegate, for the time being, the powers or duties, or any of them, of such officer to any other officer, or to any director.
4.7            
Delegation of Officer Duties.
                   The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be assigned by the Board of Directors. If and at such times as the Board of Directors so determines, the Chairman of the Board may also serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
4.8          
Chairman of the Board.
                 The Chief Executive Officer, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for carrying out the orders of and the resolutions and policies adopted by the Board of Directors and shall have general management of the business of the Corporation and shall exercise general supervision over all of its affairs. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. If and at such time as the Board of Directors so determines, the Chief Executive Officer may also serve as the President of the Corporation.
4.9            
Chief Executive Officer.
                 The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation unless the Board of Directors has appointed another person to such office, in which case the President shall be the Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
4.10           
President.
                 Vice Chairmen shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
4.11           
Vice Chairmen.
                 The Chief Financial Officer shall be the principal financial officer of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
4.12            
Chief Financial Officer.
                   The Chief Credit Officer shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
4.13          
Chief Credit Officer.
                   The General Counsel shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
4.14          
General Counsel.
                   The officer in charge of overall risk management, whatever his or her title ("Chief Risk Officer"), shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
4.15          
Chief Risk Officer.
                  The officer in charge of human resources, whatever his or her title ("Chief Human Resources Officer"), shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
4.16          
Chief Human Resources Officer.
                 Each officer of the Corporation who is a President or a Chief Operating Officer of a substantial business line, division, segment, or group (as applicable, a "Business Segment President" or "Business Segment Chief Operating Officer") shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to his or her office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President. For this purpose, a business line, division, segment, or group is substantial if its President or Chief Operating Officer is an Executive Officer or if it is expressly identified as a "segment" or "business segment" of the Corporation for financial accounting purposes.
4.17            
Business Segment Presidents and Business Segment Chief Operating Officers.
                 Each Senior Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, and Vice President shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to his or her office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, the personnel committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
4.18          
Senior Executive Vice Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice Presidents
.
                 The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in books to be kept for that purpose. The Secretary shall give or cause to be given notice of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors, shall authenticate records of the Corporation, and shall perform such other duties as are incident to the office or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence or disability of the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary or such other officer or officers as may be authorized by the Board of Directors or Executive Committee thereof shall perform all the duties and exercise all of the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall prescribe.
4.19            
Secretary.
                 The Treasurer shall have the custody of the funds and securities of the Corporation and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, or the President, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, or the
 4.20           
Treasurer.
President, whenever they may require it, an account of all of his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and at a regular meeting of the Board of Directors preceding the annual shareholders' meeting, a like report for the preceding year. The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept an account of stock registered and transferred in such manner and subject to such regulations as the Board of Directors may prescribe. The Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond, if required by the Board of Directors, in such a sum and in form and with security satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his or her death, resignation or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession, belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe or require. In the absence or disability of the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer shall perform all the duties and exercise all of the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer shall prescribe.
                 The Auditor shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
4.21            
Auditor.
                 The Controller shall be the principal accounting officer of the Corporation. The Controller is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall assist the management of the Corporation in setting the financial goals and policies of the Corporation, shall provide financial and statistical information to the shareholders and to the management of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President. In the absence or disability of the Controller, the Assistant Controller shall perform all the duties and exercise all powers of the Controller and shall perform such duties as the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall prescribe.
4.22            
Controller.
                   Officers holding such other offices as may be created pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of these Bylaws shall have such authority and perform such duties and exercise such powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, the personnel committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
4.23          
Other Officers.
                 The directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may designate one or more committees, consisting of two or more officers, and may delegate to such committee or committees all such authority that the Board of Directors deems desirable that is permitted by law. Members of such committees may take action without a meeting and may participate in meetings to the same extent and in the same manner that directors may take action and may participate pursuant to Sections 3.12 and 3.13 of these Bylaws.
4.24            
Officer Committees.
                     The certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation shall be numbered, shall be entered in the books or records of the Corporation as they are issued, and shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer and any one of the following: the President, the Treasurer, or the Secretary. Either or both of the signatures upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent, or registered by a registrar other than an officer or employee of the Corporation. Each certificate shall include the following upon the face thereof:
5.1          
Certificates.
                 Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.1 of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of some or all of the shares of any class without certificates. The Corporation shall send to each shareholder to whom such shares have been issued or transferred at the appropriate time any written statement providing information about such shares, which is required by law.
5.2            
Shares Not Represented by Certificates.
                 Transfers of shares of stock shall be made upon the books of the Corporation by the record owner or by an attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and upon surrender of any certificate therefor. The Board of Directors may appoint suitable agents in Memphis, Tennessee, and elsewhere to facilitate transfers by shareholders under such regulations as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The transfer books may be closed by the Board of Directors for such period, not to exceed 40 days, as may be deemed advisable for dividend or other purposes, or in lieu of closing the books, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for determining shareholders entitled notice of and to vote at a meeting of shareholders, or entitled to payment of any dividend or other distribution. The record date for voting or taking other action as shareholders shall not be less than 10 days nor more than 70 days prior to the meeting date or action requiring such determination of shareholders. The record date for dividends and other distributions shall not be less than 10 days prior to the payment date of the dividend or other distribution. All certificates surrendered to the Corporation for transfer shall be canceled, and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for like number of shares shall have been surrendered and canceled, except that in case of a lost or destroyed certificate a new one may be issued on the terms prescribed by Section 5.5 of these Bylaws.
5.3            
Stock Transfers and Record Dates.
                   The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof; and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as required by applicable law.
5.4          
Record Owners.
                 The agent for transfer of the Corporation's stock may issue new share certificates in place of certificates represented to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated upon receiving an indemnity satisfactory to the agent and the Secretary or Treasurer of the Corporation, without further action of the Board of Directors.
5.5            
Lost, Destroyed, Stolen or Mutilated Certificates.
                   If any current or former officer of the Corporation [including for purposes of this Article an individual who, while an officer, is or was serving another corporation or other enterprise (including an employee benefit plan and a political action committee, which serves the interests of the employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries) in any capacity at the request of the Corporation and unless the context requires otherwise the estate or personal representative of such officer] is wholly successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative and whether formal or informal ("Proceeding"), to which the officer was a party because he or she is or was an officer of the Corporation, the officer shall be indemnified by the Corporation against all reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred in connection with such Proceeding, or any appeal therein. As used in this Article, "Proceeding" shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, and whether formal or informal, arising out of or alleging any acts, errors, or omissions by the officer in the rendering or failure to render professional services, including legal and accounting services, for or at the request of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; provided such professional services are within the reasonably anticipated scope of the officer's duties. Additionally, as used in this Article, "Proceeding" shall include, but is not
6.1          
Indemnification of Officers When Wholly Successful.
limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding arising out of or alleging negligence on the part of the Officer.
                   If any current or former officer of the Corporation has not been wholly successful on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of a Proceeding, to which the officer was or was threatened to be made a party because he or she was or is an officer, the officer shall be indemnified by the Corporation against any judgment, settlement, penalty, fine (including any excise tax assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan), or other liability and any reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred as a result of such Proceeding, or any appeal therein, if authorized in the specific case after a determination has been made that indemnification is permissible because the following standard of conduct has been met:
6.2          
Indemnification of Officers When Not Wholly Successful.
provided, however, the Corporation may not indemnify an officer in connection with a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation in which the officer was adjudged liable to the Corporation or in connection with any other proceeding charging improper benefit to the officer, whether or not involving action in his or her official capacity, in which the officer was adjudged liable on the basis that personal benefit was improperly received by the officer.
                 The determination required by Section 6.2 herein shall be made as follows:
6.3            
Procedures for Indemnification Determinations.
                 An officer of the Corporation shall be deemed to be serving another corporation or other enterprise or employee benefit plan or political action committee at the request of the Corporation only if such request is reflected in the records of the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors for the purpose of making such requests. Approval by the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, may occur before or after commencement of such service by the officer.
6.4            
Serving at the Request of the Corporation.
                 The Corporation shall pay for or reimburse reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred by an officer who is a party to a Proceeding in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding if:
6.5            
Advancement of Expenses.
                 The undertaking required by Section 6.5 herein must be an unlimited general obligation of the officer but need not be secured and may be accepted without reference to financial ability to make repayment.
 6.6           
Undertaking Required for Expenses.
                   Determinations and authorizations of payments under Section 6.5 herein shall be made in the same manner as is specified in Section 6.3 herein.
6.7          
Procedures for Expense Determinations.
                   Every employee and every former director of the Corporation shall be indemnified by the Corporation to the same extent as officers of the Corporation.
 6.8         
Indemnification of Employees and Former Directors.
                 The right of indemnification set forth above shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights, including, but not limited to, rights created pursuant to Section 6.11 of these Bylaws, to which an officer, employee, or former director seeking indemnification may be entitled. No combination of rights shall permit any officer, employee or former director of the Corporation to receive a double or greater recovery.
6.9            
Nonexclusivity of Right of Indemnification.
                   The Corporation shall indemnify each of its directors and such of the non-director officers of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries as the Board of Directors may designate, and shall advance expenses, including attorney's fees, to each director and such designated officers, to the maximum extent permitted (or not prohibited) by law, and in accordance with the foregoing, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to enter into individual indemnity agreements on behalf of the Corporation with each director and such designated officers which provide for such indemnification and expense advancement and to adopt resolutions which provide for such indemnification and expense advancement.
6.10        
Mandatory Indemnification of Directors and Designated Officers.
                 Notwithstanding anything in this Article Six to the contrary, the Corporation shall have the additional power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation, or who, while a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee, or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, political action committee, or other enterprise, against liability asserted against or incurred by the person in that capacity or arising from the person's status as a director, officer, employee, or agent, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify the person against the same liability.
6.11          
Insurance.
  Directors who are not also officers of the Corporation or its affiliates shall be retired from the Board of Directors as follows:
                7.1          
Non-Employee Directors.
Directors who are also officers of the Corporation or any of its affiliates will be retired from the Board of Directors on the date of the annual meeting coincident with or next following the date of the director's retirement from or other discontinuation of active service with the Corporation and its affiliates.
                   Except as provided in the following sentence, the Corporation has no compulsory retirement age for its officers or employees. Each officer or employee who has attained 65 years of age and who, for the two-year period immediately before attaining such age, has been employed in a "bona fide executive" or a "high policy-making" position as those terms are used and defined in the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Section 12(c), and the regulations relating to that section prescribed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, all as amended from time to time (collectively, the "ADEA"), shall automatically be terminated by way of compulsory retirement and his or her salary discontinued on the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following the 65th birthday, provided such employee is entitled to an immediate nonforfeitable annual retirement benefit, as specified in the ADEA, in the aggregate amount of at least $44,000. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may continue any such officer or employee in service and designate the capacity in which he or she shall serve, and shall fix the remuneration he or she shall receive. The Board of Directors may also re-employ any former officer who had theretofore been retired.
7.2          
Officers and Employees.
                 For purposes of this Article Eight of the Bylaws, the term "document" shall mean a document of any type, including, but not limited to, an agreement, contract, instrument, power of attorney, endorsement, assignment, transfer, stock or bond power, deed, mortgage, deed of trust, lease, indenture, conveyance, proxy, waiver, consent, certificate, declaration, receipt, discharge, release, satisfaction, settlement, schedule, account, affidavit, security, bill, acceptance, bond, undertaking, check, note or other evidence of indebtedness, draft, guaranty, letter of credit, and order.
8.1            
Definition of "Document."
                 Except as expressly provided in Section 5.1 of these Bylaws (with respect to signatures on certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation), the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice Chairman, any Business Segment President, any Business Segment Chief Operating Officer, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Credit Officer, the General Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer, the Controller, the Treasurer, the Secretary, and any other officer, or any of them acting individually, may (i) execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of the Corporation or in the name and on behalf of any division or department of the Corporation any document pertaining to the business, affairs, or property of the Corporation or any division or department of the Corporation, and (ii) delegate to any other officer, employee or agent of the Corporation the power to execute and deliver any such document.
8.2            
Execution of Documents.
                  Unless otherwise required by law, the signature of the Secretary on any document may be a facsimile.
8.3          
Method of Execution by Secretary.
The provisions of this Article Nine shall be effective only during an "emergency." An "emergency" shall be deemed to exist whenever any two of the officers identified in Section 9.2 of these Bylaws in good faith determine that a quorum of the directors cannot readily be assembled because of a catastrophic event.
                9.1
          
 
Definition of "Emergency."
                A meeting of the Board of Directors may be called by any one director or by any one of the following officers: Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, any Vice Chairman, any Business Segment President, any Business Segment Chief Operating Officer, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller, General Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, Secretary, or any Executive Officer. Notice of such meeting need be given only to those directors whom it is practical to reach by any means the person calling the meeting deems feasible, including, but not limited to, by publication and radio. Such notice shall be given at least two hours prior to commencement of the meeting.
9.2            
Notice of Meeting.
                  If a quorum has not been obtained, then one or more officers of the Corporation or the Bank present at the emergency meeting of the Board of Directors, as are necessary to achieve a quorum, shall be considered to be substitute directors for purposes of the meeting, and shall serve in order of rank, and within the same rank in order of seniority determined by hire date by the Corporation, the Bank or any of their subsidiaries. In the event that less than a quorum of the directors (including any officers who serve as substitute directors for the meeting) are present, those directors present (including such officers serving as substitute directors) shall constitute a quorum.
9.3          
Quorum and Substitute Directors.
                 The Board as constituted pursuant to Section 9.3 and after notice has been provided pursuant to Section 9.2 may take any of the following actions: (i) prescribe emergency powers of the Corporation, (ii) delegate to any officer or director any of the powers of the Board of Directors, (iii) designate lines of succession of officers and agents in the event that any of them are unable to discharge their duties, (iv) relocate the principal office or designate alternative or multiple principal offices, and (v) take any other action that is convenient, helpful, or necessary to carry on the business of the Corporation.
9.4            
Action at Meeting.
                   All provisions of these Bylaws not contained in this Article Nine, which are consistent with the emergency bylaws contained in Article Nine, shall remain effective during the emergency.
9.5          
Effectiveness of Non-emergency Bylaws.
                 Any emergency causing this Article Nine to become operative shall be deemed to be terminated whenever either of the following conditions is met: (i) the directors and any substitute directors determine by a majority vote at a meeting that the emergency is over or (ii) a majority of the directors elected pursuant to the provisions of these Bylaws other than this Article Nine hold a meeting and determine that the emergency is over.
9.6            
Termination of Emergency.
                 Any corporate action taken in good faith in accordance with the provisions of this Article Nine binds the Corporation and may not be used to impose liability on any director, substitute director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation.
9.7            
Action Taken in Good Faith.
 The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have authority from time to time to determine whether the Corporation shall operate upon a calendar year basis or upon a fiscal year basis, and if the latter, said Board of Directors shall have power to determine when the said fiscal year shall begin and end.
                10.1        
Fiscal Year.
                 Dividends on the capital stock of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting pursuant to law. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside
10.2          
Dividends.
out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purposes as the directors shall think conducive to the interest of the Corporation.
                  This Corporation shall have a Corporate Seal which shall consist of an imprint of the name of the Corporation, the state of its incorporation, the year of incorporation and the words "Corporate Seal." The Corporate Seal shall not be required to establish the validity or authenticity of any document executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation.
10.3        
Seal.
                 Whenever notice is required to be given to any director, officer or shareholder under any of the provisions of the law, the Charter, or these Bylaws (except for notice required by Sections 2.8 and 3.6 of these Bylaws), it shall not be construed to require personal notice, but such notice may be given in writing by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or by telegram, teletype, facsimile transmission or other form of wire, wireless, or other electronic communication or by private carrier addressed to such shareholder at such address as appears on the Corporation's current record of shareholders, and addressed to such director or officer at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation. If mailed as provided above, notice to a shareholder shall be deemed to be effective at the time when it is deposited in the mail.
10.4          
Notices.
                 The Board of Directors shall have power to make, amend and repeal the Bylaws or any Bylaw of the Corporation by vote of not less than a majority of the directors then in office, at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. The shareholders may make, amend and repeal the Bylaws or any Bylaw of this Corporation at any annual meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock, and all Bylaws made by the directors may be amended or repealed by the shareholders only by the vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock. Without further authorization, at any time the Bylaws are amended, the Secretary is authorized to restate the Bylaws to reflect such amendment, and the Bylaws, as so restated, shall be the Bylaws of the Corporation.
10.5          
Bylaw Amendments.
                   The Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Business Segment President or Business Segment Chief Operating Officer who is an Executive Officer, or the designee or designees of them or any of them, are authorized, jointly or severally, to vote all shares (or other indicia of ownership) beneficially owned by the Corporation for any purposes and to take any action on behalf of the Corporation that is required to be taken by the Corporation as a shareholder or other beneficial owner of any entity whose shares (or other indicia of ownership) are beneficially owned by the Corporation, which they, or any of them, deem appropriate at meetings, annual or special, or without a meeting.
10.6        
Authority to Vote Shares.

1.               The 1995 Employee Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") of First Tennessee National Corporation and any successor thereto (the "Company") is designed to enable employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to obtain a proprietary interest in the Company, and thus to share in the future success of the Company's business. Accordingly, the Plan is intended as a further means not only of attracting and retaining outstanding personnel, but also of promoting a closer identity of interest between employees and shareholders.
Purpose.
2.             As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
                
(a)         "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any one of the following events:
3.            The Plan shall become effective when approved at a shareholder's meeting by the holders of a majority of the shares of Company common stock present or represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the Plan. No options or related SAR's may be granted under the Plan after the month and day in the year 2005 corresponding to the day before the month and day on which the Plan becomes effective. The term of option granted on or before such date may, however, extend beyond that date, but no incentive stock options may be granted which are exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the date of the grant.
Effective Date of Plan.
4.                          
Shares Subject to the Plan.
5.           
Plan Administration.
6.           
Eligibility.
7.            The option price per share to be paid by the grantee to the Company upon exercise of the option shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the share at the time the option is granted, nor shall the price per share be less than the par value of the share. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the option price per share may be less than 100% of the fair market value of the share at the time the option is granted if:
Option Price.
"Fair market value" for purposes of the Plan shall be the mean between the high and low sales prices at which shares of the Company were sold on the valuation day as quoted by the Nasdaq Stock Market or, if there were no sales on that day, then on the last day prior to the valuation day during which there were sales. In the event that this method of valuation is not practicable, then the Committee, in its discretion, shall establish the method by which fair market value shall be determined.
8.            
Terms or Quotas of Options and Related SAR's:
9.            
Exercise of Option by Grantee on Cessation of Employment.
10.            If the grantee of an option and related SAR shall die while in the employ of the Company or within three months after ceasing to be an employee, and if the option and related SAR was in effect at the time of his or her death (whether or not its term had then commenced), the option and related SAR may, until the expiration of five years from the date of death of the grantee or until the earlier expiration of the term of the option and related SAR, be exercised by the successor of the deceased grantee. Although such exercise is not limited to the exercise rights which had accrued at the date of death of the grantee, such exercise shall be subject to all applicable conditions and restrictions prescribed in Section 8 hereof. The provisions of this Section 10 shall be subject to the Committee's discretion exercised pursuant to Section 9(b) above.
Exercise of Option or Related SAR After Death of Grantee.
11.            The Committee in its sole discretion may from time to time permit the method of exercising options known as pyramiding (the automatic application of shares received upon the exercise of a portion of a stock option to satisfy the exercise price for additional portions of the option).
Pyramiding of Options.
12.            No person shall have any rights of a shareholder by virtue of a stock option and related SAR except with respect to shares actually issued to him or her, and issuance of shares shall confer no retroactive right to dividends.
Shareholder Rights.
13.          Any increase in the number of outstanding shares of common stock of the Company occurring through stock splits or stock dividends after the adoption of the Plan shall be reflected proportionately:
Adjustment for Changes in Capitalization.
and a proportionate reduction shall be made in the per-share option price as to any outstanding options and related SAR's or portions thereof not yet exercised. Any fractional shares resulting from such adjustments shall be eliminated. If changes in capitalization other than those considered above shall occur, the Board of Directors shall make such adjustments in the number and class of shares for which options and related SAR's may thereafter be granted, and in the number and class of shares remaining subject to options and related SAR's previously granted and in the per-share option price as the Board in its discretion may consider appropriate, and all such adjustments shall be conclusive; provided, however, that the Board shall not make any adjustments with respect to the number of shares subject to previously granted incentive stock options or available for grant as options if such adjustment would constitute the adoption of a new plan requiring shareholder approval before further incentive stock options could be granted.
14.          The Board of Directors may at any time terminate, suspend, or modify the Plan, except that the Board of Directors shall not amend the Plan in violation of law and shall not, without shareholder approval, make any amendment to the Plan (other than amendments pursuant to Section 13 herein) that would:
Termination, Suspension, or Modification of Plan.
No termination, suspension, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any right acquired by any grantee, or by any successor of a grantee (as provided in Section 10 hereof), under the terms of an option and related SAR's granted before the date of such termination, suspension, or modification, unless such grantee or successor shall consent, but it shall be conclusively presumed that any adjustment for changes in capitalization as provided in Section 13 does not adversely affect any such right.
15.          The proceeds received by the Company from the sale of its shares under the Plan will be used for general corporate purposes.
Application of Proceeds.
16.            Neither the adoption of the Plan nor the granting of any stock option or SAR shall confer upon the grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or the subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time.
No Right to Employment.
 This Plan shall bind any successor of the Company, its assets or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place. In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not by the foregoing provision or by operation of law be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Plan, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. The term "Company," as used in the Plan, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Plan.
17..
         Successors

1.             .  The 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") of First Tennessee National Corporation and any successor thereto (the "Company"), is designed to enable employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to obtain a proprietary interest in the Company, and thus to share in the future success of the Company's business. Accordingly, the Plan is intended as a further means not only of attracting and retaining outstanding personnel, but also of promoting a closer identity of interest between employees and shareholders.
Purpose
2.               As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
3.             The Plan shall become effective upon approval at a shareholder meeting by the holders of a majority of the shares of Company common stock present, or represented, at such meeting and entitled to vote on the Plan. No options may be granted under the Plan after the month and day in the year 2010 corresponding to the day before the month and day on which the Plan becomes effective. The term of options granted on or before such date may, however, extend beyond that date, but no incentive stock options may be granted which are exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the date of the grant.
Effective Date of Plan.
4.                           
Shares Subject to the Plan.
5.            
Plan Administration.
6.            
Eligibility.
7.              The option price per share to be paid by the grantee to the Company upon exercise of the option shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the share at the time the option is granted, nor shall the price per share be less than the par value of the share. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the option price per share may be less than 100% of the fair market value of the share at the time the option is granted if:
Option Price.
"Fair market value" for purposes of the Plan shall be the mean between the high and low sales prices at which shares of the Company were sold on the New York Stock Exchange on the valuation day or, if there were no sales on that day, then on the last day prior to the valuation day during which there were sales. In the event that this method of valuation is not practicable, then the Committee, in its discretion, shall establish the method by which fair market value shall be determined.
8.            
Terms or Quotas of Options:
9.             
Exercise of Option by Grantee on Cessation of Employment.
10.             If the grantee of an option shall die while in the employ of the Company or within three months after ceasing to be an employee, and if the option was in effect at the time of his or her death (whether or not its term had then commenced), the option may, until the expiration of three years (unless the option was granted in lieu of compensation, in which case it shall be five years) from the date of death of the grantee or until the earlier expiration of the term of the option, be exercised by the successor of the deceased grantee. Although such exercise is not limited to the exercise rights which had accrued at the date of death of the grantee, such exercise shall be subject to all applicable conditions and restrictions prescribed in Section 8 hereof. The provisions of this Section 10 shall be subject to the Committee's discretion exercised pursuant to Section 9(b) above.
Exercise of Option After Death of Grantee.
11.             The Committee in its sole discretion may from time to time permit the method of exercising options known as pyramiding (the automatic application of shares received upon the exercise of a portion of a stock option to satisfy the exercise price for additional portions of the option).
Pyramiding of Options.
12.             No person shall have any rights of a shareholder by virtue of a stock option except with respect to shares actually issued to him or her, and issuance of shares shall confer no retroactive right to dividends.
Shareholder Rights.
13.            Any increase in the number of outstanding shares of common stock of the Company occurring through stock splits or stock dividends after the adoption of the Plan shall be reflected proportionately:
Adjustment for Changes in Capitalization.
and a proportionate reduction shall be made in the per-share option price as to any outstanding options or portions thereof not yet exercised. Any fractional shares resulting from such adjustments shall be eliminated. If changes in capitalization other than those considered above shall occur, the Board of Directors shall make such adjustments in the number and class of shares for which options may thereafter be granted, and in the number and class of shares remaining subject to options previously granted and in the per-share option price as the Board in its discretion may consider appropriate, and all such adjustments shall be conclusive; provided, however, that the Board shall not make any adjustments with respect to the number of shares subject to previously granted incentive stock options or available for grant as options if such adjustment would constitute the adoption of a new plan requiring shareholder approval before further incentive stock options could be granted.
14.            The Board of Directors may at any time terminate, suspend, or modify the Plan, except that the Board of Directors shall not amend the Plan in violation of law. No termination, suspension, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any right acquired by any grantee, or by any successor of a grantee (as provided in Section 10 hereof), under the terms of an option granted before the date of such termination, suspension, or modification, unless such grantee or successor shall consent, but it shall be conclusively presumed that any adjustment for changes in capitalization as provided in Section 13 does not adversely affect any such right.
Termination, Suspension, or Modification of Plan.
15.            The proceeds received by the Company from the sale of its shares under the Plan will be used for general corporate purposes.
Application of Proceeds.
16.             Neither the adoption of the Plan nor the granting of any stock option shall confer upon the grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or the subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time.
No Right to Employment.
17.             The Plan and all determinations thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Tennessee.
Governing Law.
18.             This Plan shall bind any successor of the Company, its assets or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place. In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not by the foregoing provision or by operation of law be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Plan, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. The term "Company," as used in the Plan, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Plan.
Successors
.


