FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20061018162325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of First Horizon National Corporation Third Quarter 2006 Financial Supplement which is scheduled to be released October 18, 2006.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of First Horizon National Corporation's ("Corporation") previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 is not to be considered "filed" under the Exchange Act, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Corporation's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.

         
Dear Investor,
In conjunction with the release of First Horizon National Corporations third quarter results for 2006, we have prepared this financial supplement to assist investors in understanding First Horizon National Corporations financial results.
This supplement compares current period results to earnings and other financial information from the previous four quarters.
Please feel free to call if you have any additional questions.
Regards,
Dave Miller, Investor Relations
901-523-4162
dwmiller@firsthorizon.com
 
NM - Not meaningful
 
 
 
  (a) During first quarter 2006, FHN sold loans through an on-balance sheet securitization, which is structured as a financing for accounting purposes.
 
 
 
 
(a) Includes gains from whole-loan sales and net revenue from asset securitizations
(b) Current quarter is an estimate
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
*See Note 1 - Financial Glossary
 
 
** Includes valuation reserve/MSRs only
 
 
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
(a) Current quarter is an estimate
(b) Calculated on period-end balances
 
 
A fee charged to the borrower for the cost of appraising a property.
Appraisal Fees:
The net amount of the discount or premium pricing charged to borrowers upon loan origination. This also includes the servicing release premium paid to correspondents to purchase loans. Discount pricing is used to competitively price mortgage loans.
Concessions:
A fee charged to the borrower for the cost of obtaining the borrowers credit report.
Credit Report Fee:
The timing difference between collecting and recognizing origination fees on a loan. For loans held for sale, origination fees are recognized at the time the loan is sold, not at the time the loan is originated.
FAS 91 Fee Deferral:
The reclassification of the cost of originating the loans sold during the period.
FAS 91 Reclassification:
A fee charged to the borrower to inspect a property.
Final Inspection Fee:
A method of accounting for certain assets by recording them at the lower of their historical cost or their current market value.
Lower of Cost or Market (LOCOM):
The net result of hedging activities.
Marketing G/L (Trading Gains):
The retained right to service a mortgage loan when a mortgage loan is sold on a servicing-retained basis. Represents the present value of the amount by which the estimated future net cash flows from servicing mortgage loans exceeds the cost of servicing mortgage loans.
Originated Mortgage Servicing Rights (OMSR):
A fee charged to the borrower by the lender to originate a loan. Usually stated as a percentage of the face value of the loan.
Origination Fees:
The premium received for selling loans on a servicing released basis.
Servicing Released Premium (SRP):


