FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20061221171535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) 
December 19, 2006
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code -
(901) 523-4444
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
(e)      On December 19, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the registrant modified certain benefits provided to one or more executive officers named in the registrant's most recent prior proxy statement ("named executive officers"). Specifically, effective immediately, the registrant no longer will make partial or full tax reimbursement payments with respect to the following benefits:
In the past, the registrant made tax reimbursement payments with respect to a given year at the end of that year. Accordingly, the Committee's actions will result in no tax reimbursement payments being made with respect to the foregoing benefits for 2006.
ITEM 8.01.      OTHER EVENTS
On December 19, 2006, the Board of Directors of the registrant took certain actions which resulted in the rescission of certain actions taken at its meeting of October 18, 2006 (previously reported on Form 8-K) that affected outstanding compensatory awards with certain non-employee directors of the registrant, and that modified the "Compensation" section of the registrant's Director Policy in conformity with the rescission.
Specifically, the Board rescinded its cancellation of all outstanding shares of unvested restricted stock that were held by non-employee directors and that were to vest after 2007. In order to accommodate the continuation of those unvested restricted shares, the restricted stock unit ("RSU") grants that were to commence in 2007 on an across-the-board basis instead will be phased in for each director on a pro-rata basis as his or her old restricted shares vest. The following examples illustrate the phase-in process for two hypothetical directors who are assumed to serve in office through all relevant dates:
As a result, in 2007 all existing non-employee directors who fulfill the vesting requirements will have 800 restricted shares vest. After 2007, each such director will have one of the following occur each year: 800 restricted shares will vest; or, a full grant of RSUs will vest; or, a combination of restricted shares (less than 800) and RSUs (less than 100%) will vest.
Directors will be paid no more or less as a result of the rescission than they would have received had the Board approved a phase-in process to the RSU program in October. The rescission was made in order to avoid unintended adverse consequences for the registrant.
The foregoing actions affect only non-employee directors of the registrant. The registrant's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer does not receive any compensation affected by any of the actions described above.
The Board amended the "Compensation" section of the registrant's Director Policy to conform to the foregoing actions. A copy of that section is filed herewith as an exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
          The following exhibits are filed herewith:
** Management contract or compensatory arrangement.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
** Management contract or compensatory arrangement.

EXHIBIT 10.5(n)
This exhibit sets forth excerpts from the Director Policy of First Horizon National Corporation of all sections in that Policy pertaining to compensation and retirement of directors. Other sections of the Policy have been omitted.
I.     
STATEMENT OF POLICY
Compensation
          
Unless payment is deferred under a duly adopted Company plan or agreement, the annual retainer will be paid quarterly in advance, and the attendance fees will be paid following the meeting. Directors are permitted to elect to defer into an interest-accruing account or the First Horizon National Corporation Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan or any other duly adopted deferral plan, now existing or hereafter approved.
EX-1
          
In addition to retainer and attendance fees, non-employee directors will receive an annual award of restricted stock units ("RSUs") under the Company's 2003 Equity Compensation Plan, or any duly adopted successor plan. Director RSUs: generally will be granted annually in April on the first trading day which begins after the first trading-day session that follows the release of quarterly earnings for the first quarter; will vest on the second Monday in February following the grant; will be paid at vesting in shares of the Company's common stock only; will earn dividend equivalents that will cumulate and be paid in cash at vesting; and will carry no voting or other rights associated with actual stock. When vesting occurs, shares will be delivered reasonably promptly thereafter but in no event later than March 14 following the vesting date. If a director leaves the Board before vesting, the RSUs will be forfeited unless the departure is due to death, disability, retirement, or change in control. The number of director RSUs to be granted for any full-year grant will be determined by dividing $45,000 by the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the grant date. Beginning in 2007, RSU grants will be phased in for each director on a pro-rata basis as his or her outstanding restricted shares vest. As a result of the phase-in, each director will have one of the following occur each year: 800 restricted shares will vest; or, a full grant of RSUs will vest; or, a combination of restricted shares (less than 800) and RSUs (less than 100%) will vest. If a new non-employee director joins the Board other than at an annual meeting, he or she would be granted RSUs pro-rated for the number of quarters remaining until the next annual shareholder meeting, starting with that quarter in which the new director is appointed. For example, a new non-employee director appointed in October would receive two-fourths of the usual annual number of RSUs, granted in October one full business day following the registrant's earnings release and vesting the following year in February.
          
For purposes of non-employee director equity-based awards: "disability" means total and permanent disability; "retirement" means any termination, not caused by death or disability, after the attainment of age 65 or ten years of service as a director of the Company; and, "fair market value" and "change in control" have the meanings given in the plan under which the award was granted.
          
The foregoing equity-based awards are to be made automatically without further action by the Board. However, in a particular case or circumstance, the Board may change or make specific exceptions to any equity award otherwise called for above. Directors may receive such other awards under the Company's 2003 Equity Compensation Plan, or any duly adopted successor plan, as may be approved by the Board. Perquisites and other benefits for non-employee directors are to be provided or paid as approved by the Board.
          
Inside directors will receive no compensation for board or committee membership, committee chairmanship or attendance.
Retirement
          
Directors of FHNC or FTB shall be retired from the Board of Directors in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bylaws of FHNC or FTB as in effect on the date hereof and as they may be amended from time to time.
EX-2
II.     
IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY
          
This policy shall be implemented by the Chairman of the Board in cooperation with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of FHNC and FTB. The Chairman of the Board may adopt appropriate interpretations and procedures to assist in implementation of this Policy.
III.    
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
          
The Chairman of the Board is delegated the authority to make exceptions to any provision of this policy except the provisions dealing with compensation and retirement. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is delegated the authority to make exceptions to any provision of this policy except the provision dealing with retirement. Any exception to this policy shall be reported to the Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
EX-3

EXHIBIT 10.15
The following benefits are available to some or all executive officers (among other persons), but not to all full-time employees of the registrant.
 


