FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20060307061038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
          On March 1, 2006, the registrant entered into a master confirmation agreement with Goldman Sachs & Co. under which the registrant purchased 4 million shares of the registrant's common stock in connection with an accelerated share repurchase program under existing, previously announced share repurchase authorization. The initial purchase price of the shares is $39.43 per share, or approximately $158 million excluding transaction costs. The agreement requires a purchase price adjustment that will be based upon the actual volume weighted average price of the registrant's common stock during a repurchase period and certain other provisions. The share repurchase is being funded with a portion of the proceeds from the merchant processing sale (reported in Item 8.01 below). The final settlement, after the repurchase period, is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2006.
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS
          On March 1, 2006, the registrant closed the sale of its national merchant processing business to NOVA Information Systems (NOVA), a wholly owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. This sale has been previously reported in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 31, 2006.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to Instruction B.4. to Form 8-K and applicable regulations and releases, forms of documents and descriptions of arrangements related to the foregoing matters reported under Item 1.01 will be filed as exhibits not later than the registrant's quarterly report on Form 10-Q applicable to the quarter ending March 31, 2006, except for exhibits filed with this Report. All summaries and descriptions of documents, and of amendments thereto, set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the documents themselves, whether filed as an exhibit hereto or filed as an exhibit to a later report.
In the agreement referred to in Item 1.01, each party makes customary representations and warranties to other parties. Those representations and warranties are made only to and for the benefit of those other parties in the context of a business contract. They are subject to contractual materiality standards. Exceptions to such representations and warranties may be partially or fully waived by such parties in their discretion. No such representation or warranty may be relied upon by any other person for any purpose.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Pursuant to Instruction B.4. to Form 8-K and applicable regulations and releases, forms of documents and descriptions of arrangements related to the foregoing matters reported under Item 1.01 will be filed as exhibits not later than the registrant's quarterly report on Form 10-Q applicable to the quarter ending March 31, 2006, except for exhibits filed with this Report. All summaries and descriptions of documents, and of amendments thereto, set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the documents themselves, whether filed as an exhibit hereto or filed as an exhibit to a later report.
In the agreement referred to in Item 1.01, each party makes customary representations and warranties to other parties. Those representations and warranties are made only to and for the benefit of those other parties in the context of a business contract. They are subject to contractual materiality standards. Exceptions to such representations and warranties may be partially or fully waived by such parties in their discretion. No such representation or warranty may be relied upon by any other person for any purpose.

EXHIBIT 10.16
GOLDMAN SACHS & CO. | 85 BROAD STREET | NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10004 | TEL: 212-902-1000
Opening Transaction
                    This master confirmation ("Master Confirmation") dated as of March 1, 2006, is intended to supplement the terms and provisions of certain Transactions (each, a "Transaction") entered into from time to time between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("GS&Co.") and First Horizon National Corporation ("Counterparty"). This Master Confirmation, taken alone, is neither a commitment by either party to enter into any Transaction nor evidence of a Transaction. The terms of any particular Transaction shall be set forth in a Supplemental Confirmation in the form of Annex A hereto which references this Master Confirmation, in which event the terms and provisions of this Master Confirmation shall be deemed to be incorporated into and made a part of each such Supplemental Confirmation. This Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation together shall constitute a "Confirmation" as referred to in the Agreement specified below.
                    The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the "Equity Definitions"), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Master Confirmation. This Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation evidences a complete binding agreement between the Counterparty and GS&Co. as to the terms of each Transaction to which this Master Confirmation and the related Supplemental Confirmation relates.
                    All provisions contained in or incorporated by reference in the form of the 1992 ISDA Master Agreement (Multi-Currency Cross Border) (the "ISDA Form" or the "Agreement") will govern this Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation except as expressly modified below. This Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation, together with all other documents referring to the Agreement confirming Transactions entered into between GS&Co. and Counterparty (notwithstanding anything to the contrary in a Confirmation), shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to the ISDA Form as if GS&Co. and Counterparty had executed the Agreement (but without any Schedule except for (i) the election of Loss and Second Method, New York law (without regard to the conflicts of law principles) as the governing law and US Dollars ("USD") as the Termination Currency, (ii) the election that subparagraph (ii) of Section 2(c) will not apply to Transactions, (iii) the replacement of the word "third" in the last line of Section 5(a)(i) with the word "first" and (iv) the election that the "Cross Default" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi) shall apply to Counterparty, with a "Threshold Amount" of USD 50 million).
               All provisions contained in the Agreement shall govern this Master Confirmation and the related Supplemental Confirmation relating to a Transaction except as expressly modified below or in the related Supplemental Confirmation. With respect to any relevant Transaction, the Agreement, this Master Confirmation and the related Supplemental Confirmation shall represent the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter and terms of such Transaction and shall supersede all prior or contemporaneous written or oral communications with respect thereto.
                    If, in relation to any Transaction to which this Master Confirmation and related Supplemental Confirmation relate, there is any inconsistency between the Agreement, this Master Confirmation, any Supplemental Confirmation and the Equity Definitions that are incorporated into any Supplemental Confirmation, the following will prevail for purposes of such Transaction in the order of precedence indicated: (i) such Supplemental Confirmation; (ii) this Master Confirmation; (iii) the Agreement; and (iv) the Equity Definitions.
                    1. Each Transaction constitutes a Share Forward Transaction for the purposes of the Equity Definitions. Set forth below are the terms and conditions which, together with the terms and conditions set forth in each Supplemental Confirmation (in respect of each relevant Transaction), shall govern each such Transaction.
General Terms:
                    2. GS&Co.
Calculation Agent:
                    3.
Representations, Warranties and Covenants of GS&Co. and Counterparty.
                    (a) Each party represents and warrants that it (i) is an "eligible contract participant", as defined in the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act, as amended and (ii) is entering into each Transaction hereunder as principal (and not as agent or in any other capacity, fiduciary or otherwise) and not for the benefit of any third party.
                    (b) Each party acknowledges that the offer and sale of each Transaction to it is intended to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), by virtue of Section 4(2) thereof and the provisions of Regulation D promulgated thereunder ("Regulation D"). Accordingly, each party represents and warrants to the other that (i) it has the financial ability to bear the economic risk of its investment in each Transaction and is able to bear a total loss of its investment, (ii) it is an "accredited investor" as that term is defined under Regulation D, (iii) it will purchase each Transaction for investment and not with a view to the distribution or resale thereof, and (iv) the disposition of each Transaction is restricted under this Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation, the Securities Act and state securities laws.
                    4.
Additional Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Counterparty.
                    As of (i) the date hereof and (ii) the Trade Date, Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS&Co. that:
                    (a) the purchase or writing of each Transaction will not violate Rule 13e-1 or Rule 13e-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act");
                    (b) is not entering into any Transaction on the basis of, and is not aware of, any material non-public information with respect to the Shares or in anticipation of, in connection with, or to facilitate, a distribution of its securities, a self tender offer or a third-party tender offer;
                    (c) Counterparty is in compliance with its reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, together with all reports subsequently filed by it pursuant to the Exchange Act, taken together and as amended and supplemented to the date of this representation, do not, as of their respective filing dates, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading;
                    (d) each Transaction is being entered into pursuant to a publicly disclosed Share buy-back program and its Board of Directors has approved the use of derivatives to effect the Share buy-back program;
                    (e) notwithstanding the generality of Section 13.1 of the Equity Definitions, GS&Co. is not making any representations or warranties with respect to the treatment of any Transaction under FASB Statements 149 or 150, EITF 00-19 (or any successor issue statements) or under FASB's Liabilities & Equity Project;
                    (f) it will not take any action or refrain from taking any action that would limit or in any way adversely affect GS&Co.'s rights under the Agreement;
                    (g) it has not, and during any Valuation Period (as extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 and "Valuation Period" herein) will not, enter into agreements similar to the Transactions described herein where the valuation period in such other transaction will overlap at any time (including as a result of extensions in such valuation period as provided in the relevant agreements) with any Valuation Period (as extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 and "Valuation Period" herein) under this Master Confirmation. In the event that the valuation period in any other similar transaction overlaps with any Valuation Period under this Master Confirmation as a result of any extension made pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 and "Valuation Period" herein, Counterparty shall promptly amend such transaction to avoid any such overlap;
                    (h) during the Valuation Period (as extended or suspended pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 and "Valuation Period" herein) the Shares or securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares are not subject to a "restricted period" as such term is defined in Regulation M promulgated under the Exchange Act ("Regulation M"); and
                    (i) it shall report each Transaction as required under Regulation S-K and/or Regulation S-B under the Exchange Act, as applicable.
                    5..
Suspension of Valuation Period
                    (a) If Counterparty concludes that it will be engaged in a distribution of the Shares for purposes of Regulation M, Counterparty agrees that it will, on one Scheduled Trading Day's written notice, direct GS&Co. not to purchase Shares in connection with hedging any Transaction during the "restricted period" (as defined in Regulation M). If on any Scheduled Trading Day Counterparty delivers written notice (and confirms by telephone) by 8:30 a.m. New York Time (the "Notification Time") then such notice shall be effective to suspend the Valuation Period as of such Notification Time. In the event that Counterparty delivers notice and/or confirms by telephone after the Notification Time, then the Valuation Period shall be suspended effective as of 8:30 a.m. New York Time on the following Scheduled Trading Day or as otherwise required by law or agreed between Counterparty and GS&Co. The Valuation Period shall be suspended and the Valuation Date extended for each Scheduled Trading Day in such restricted period.
                    (b) In the event that GS&Co. concludes, in its sole discretion, that it is appropriate with respect to any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by GS&Co.), for it to refrain from purchasing Shares on any Scheduled Trading Day during the Valuation Period, GS&Co. may by written notice to Counterparty elect to suspend the Valuation Period for such number of Scheduled Trading Days as is specified in the notice. The notice shall not specify, and GS&Co. shall not otherwise communicate to Counterparty, the reason for GS&Co.'s election to suspend the Valuation Period. The Valuation Period shall be suspended and the Valuation Date extended for each Scheduled Trading Day occurring during any such suspension.
                    (c) On one occasion and upon written notice to GS&Co. prior to 8:30 a.m. New York time on any Scheduled Trading Day during the Valuation Period, Counterparty may elect to suspend the Valuation Period for such number of Scheduled Trading Days as is specified in the notice up to a maximum of 30 calendar days. The notice shall not specify, and Counterparty shall not otherwise communicate to GS&Co., the reason for Counterparty's election to suspend the Valuation Period. The Valuation Period shall be suspended and the Valuation Date extended for each Scheduled Trading Day occurring during any such suspension.
                    (d) In the event that the Valuation Period is suspended pursuant to Sections 5(a),(b) or (c) above during the regular trading session on the Exchange then the Calculation Agent in its sole discretion shall, in calculating the Forward Cash Settlement Amount, extend the Valuation Period and make adjustments to the weighting of each Relevant Price for purposes of determining the Settlement Price, with such adjustments based on, among other factors, the duration of any such suspension and the volume, historical trading patterns and price of the Shares.
                    6. . Counterparty represents, warrants and covenants to GS&Co. that for each Transaction:
Counterparty Purchases
                    (a) Counterparty (or any "affiliated purchaser" as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act ("")) shall not, without the prior written consent of GS&Co., purchase any Shares, listed contracts on the Shares or securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for Shares (including, without limitation, any Rule 10b-18 purchases of blocks (as defined in Rule 10b-18)) during any Valuation Period (as extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 and "Valuation Period" herein); provided that Counterparty may purchase Shares in connection with its employee stock options plan or under any privately negotiated repurchases. During this time, any such purchases by Counterparty shall be made through GS&Co., or if not through GS&Co., with the prior written consent of GS&Co., and in compliance with Rule 10b-18 or otherwise in a manner that Counterparty and GS&Co. believe is in compliance with applicable requirements. Any such purchase by Counterparty shall be disregarded for purposes of determining the Forward Cash Settlement Amount. To the extent that Counterparty makes any such purchase other than through GS&Co., or other than in connection with any Transaction, Counterparty hereby represents and warrants to GS&Co. that (a) it will not take other action that would or could cause GS&Co.'s purchases of the Shares during the Valuation Period not to comply with Rule 10b-18 and (b) any such purchases will not otherwise constitute a violation of Section 9(a) or Rule 10(b) of the Exchange Act. This subparagraph (a) shall not restrict any purchases by Counterparty of Shares effected during any suspension of any Valuation Period in accordance with Section 5 herein and any purchases during such suspension shall be disregarded in calculating the Forward Cash Settlement Amount; and
Rule 10b-18
                    (b) Counterparty is entering into this Master Confirmation and each Transaction hereunder in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade the prohibitions of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act (""). It is the intent of the parties that each Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) and each Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation shall be interpreted to comply with the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c). Counterparty will not seek to control or influence GS&Co. to make "purchases or sales" (within the meaning of Rule 10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B)(3)) under any Transaction entered into under this Master Confirmation, including, without limitation, GS&Co.'s decision to enter into any hedging transactions. Counterparty represents and warrants that it has consulted with its own advisors as to the legal aspects of its adoption and implementation of this Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation under Rule 10b5-1.
Rule 10b5-1
                    7. . Additional Termination Event will apply. The following will constitute Additional Termination Events, in each case with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party:
Additional Termination Events
                    (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Equity Definitions, the occurrence of a Nationalization, Insolvency or a Delisting (in each case effective on the Announcement Date as determined by the Calculation Agent);
                    (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Equity Definitions, the occurrence of a Merger Event (effective on the Merger Date) or a Tender Offer (effective on the Tender Offer Date) in respect of which any Other Consideration received for the Shares does not consist of cash. For the avoidance of doubt, in the
event that any portion of the consideration received for the Shares consists of cash or New Shares, this Additional Termination Event shall only apply with respect to all or any Transaction(s) (or portions thereof) remaining after giving effect to the provisions in "Consequences of Merger Events" or "Consequences of Tender Offers", as the case may be, above;
                    (c) GS&Co. shall reasonably believe in good faith that Counterparty will be unable to meet its obligations when due for any reason and Counterparty fails, after 10 Business Days prior written notice from GS&Co. to provide GS&Co. with adequate assurance of its ability to perform; or
                    (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Equity Definitions, an Extraordinary Dividend is declared by the Issuer.
                    8. . The following occurrence will constitute an Event of Default for purposes of Section 5(a) of the Agreement (with Counterparty considered to be the Defaulting Party):
Additional Event of Default
                    Counterparty fails to perform any obligation required to be performed under any other agreement between Counterparty and GS&Co. or its affiliated entities.
                    9. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6 of the Agreement:
Automatic Termination Provisions
                    (a) An Additional Termination Event with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party will automatically occur without any notice or action by GS&Co. or Counterparty if the price of the Shares on the Exchange at any time falls below the Termination Price (as specified in the related Supplemental Confirmation) provided that (for the avoidance of doubt only) such Additional Termination Event shall be an Additional Termination Event only with respect to the Transaction documented in such related Supplemental Confirmation. The Exchange Business Day that the price of the Shares on the Exchange at any time falls below the Termination Price will be the "Early Termination Date" for purposes of the Agreement.
                    (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6(d) of the Agreement, following the occurrence of such an Additional Termination Event, GS&Co. will notify Counterparty of the amount owing under Section 6(e) of the Agreement within a commercially reasonable time period (with such period based upon the amount of time, determined by GS&Co. (or any of its Affiliates) in its sole discretion, that it would take to unwind any of its Hedge Position(s) related to the Transaction in a commercially reasonable manner based on relevant market indicia). For purposes of the "Net Share Settlement Upon Early Termination" provisions herein, (i) the date that such notice is effective (the "Notice Date") shall constitute the "Net Share Valuation Date", (ii) the Exchange Business Day immediately following the Notice Date shall be the Net Share Settlement Date and (iii) all references to the Forward Cash Settlement Amount in Annex B hereto shall be deemed to be the Early Termination Amount.
                    10. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Equity Definitions, to the extent that an Announcement Date for a potential Merger Transaction occurs during any Valuation Period:
Special Provisions for Merger Events
                    (a) Promptly after request from GS&Co., Counterparty shall provide GS&Co. with written notice specifying (i) Counterparty's average daily Rule 10b-18 Purchases (as defined in Rule 10b-18) during the three full calendar months immediately preceding the Announcement Date that were not effected through GS&Co. or its affiliates and (ii) the number of Shares purchased pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act for the three full calendar months preceding the Announcement Date. Such written notice shall be deemed to be a certification by Counterparty to GS&Co. that such information is true and correct. Counterparty understands that GS&Co. will use this information in calculating the trading volume for purposes of Rule 10b-18; and
                    (b) GS&Co. in its sole discretion may (i) make adjustments to the terms of any Transaction, including, without limitation, the Valuation Date, the Counterparty Additional Payment Amount and the Number of Shares to account for the number of Shares that could be purchased on each day during the Valuation Period in
compliance with Rule 10b-18 following the Announcement Date or (ii) treat the occurrence of the Announcement Date as an Additional Termination Event with Counterparty as the sole Affected Party.
                    "Merger Transaction" means any merger, acquisition or similar transaction involving a recapitalization as contemplated by Rule 10b-18(a)(13)(iv) under the Exchange Act.
                    11. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Master Confirmation or any Supplemental Confirmation hereunder, in the event that an Extraordinary Event under Article 12 of the Equity Definitions occurs or an Early Termination Date occurs or is designated with respect to any Transaction (each an "Affected Transaction"), then GS&Co. may elect, in its sole discretion, by notice to Counterparty, to have Counterparty deliver the Number of Early Settlement Shares to GS&Co. on the date that such notice is effective and either GS&Co. shall pay to Counterparty the Special Termination Amount, if positive, or Counterparty shall pay to GS&Co. the absolute value of the Special Termination Amount, if negative. To the extent that Counterparty elects to deliver Shares to GS&Co. accompanied by an effective Registration Statement (satisfactory to GS&Co. in its sole discretion) covering such Shares, Counterparty must be in compliance with the conditions specified in (iii) though (ix) in Annex B hereto at the time of such delivery. If Counterparty elects to deliver Unregistered Shares (as defined in Annex B) to GS&Co., Counterparty and GS&Co. will negotiate in good faith on acceptable procedures and documentation relating to the sale of such Unregistered Shares. Counterparty and GS&Co. agree that the payment of the Special Termination Amount and the delivery of the Number of Early Settlement Shares satisfies in full any obligation of a party to make any payments pursuant to Section 6(e) of the Agreement or Article 12 of the Equity Definitions, as the case may be.
Special Calculation and Settlement Following Early Termination and Extraordinary Events
                    "Number of Early Settlement Shares" means a number of Shares as determined by GS&Co. in a good faith and commercially reasonable manner based on its or any of its Affiliates' Hedge Positions with respect to each Affected Transaction under this Master Confirmation.
                    "Special Termination Amount" means the sum of (a) the product of (i) the Number of Early Settlement Shares multiplied by (ii) a per Share price (the "Early Termination Price") determined by GS&Co. in a good faith and commercially reasonable manner based on relevant market indicia, including GS&Co.'s funding costs associated with Early Settlement Shares and costs incurred or estimated to be incurred by GS&Co. in connection with the purchase and sale of Shares in order to close out GS&Co.'s or any of its Affiliates' Hedge Positions with respect to each Affected Transaction and, in the event that Counterparty delivers Unregistered Shares to GS&Co., whether GS&Co. and Counterparty have agreed on acceptable procedures and documentation relating to such Unregistered Shares as described above and (b) any amount owing under Section 6(e) of the Agreement or pursuant to Article 12 of the Equity Definitions, as the case may be, by GS&Co. to Counterparty (expressed as a positive number) or by Counterparty to GS&Co. (expressed as a negative number).
                    12. . The parties hereto intend for:
Acknowledgments
                    (a) Each Transaction to be a "securities contract" as defined in Section 741(7) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Title 11 of the United States Code) (the "Bankruptcy Code"), a "swap agreement" as defined in Section 101(53B) of the Bankruptcy Code, or a "forward contract" as defined in Section 101(25) of the Bankruptcy Code, and the parties hereto to be entitled to the protections afforded by, among other Sections, Sections 362(b)(6), 362(b)(17), 555, 556, and 560 of the Bankruptcy Code;
                    (b) A party's right to liquidate or terminate any Transaction, net out or offset termination values of payment amounts, and to exercise any other remedies upon the occurrence of any Event of Default under the Agreement with respect to the other party to constitute a "contractual right" (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code);
                    (c) Any cash, securities or other property transferred as performance assurance, credit support or collateral with respect to each Transaction to constitute "margin payments" (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code); and
                    (d) All payments for, under or in connection with each Transaction, all payments for the Shares and the transfer of such Shares to constitute "settlement payments" and "transfers" (as defined in the Bankruptcy Code).
                    13. .
Calculations on Early Termination and Set-Off
                    (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement or the Equity Definitions, the calculation of any Settlement Amounts, Unpaid Amounts and amounts owed in respect of cancelled Transactions under Article 12 of the Equity Definitions shall be calculated separately for (A) all Terminated Transactions (it being understood that such term for the purposes of this paragraph includes cancelled Transactions under Article 12 of the Equity Definitions) in the Shares of the Issuer that qualify as equity under applicable accounting rules (collectively, the "Equity Shares") as determined by the Calculation Agent and (B) all other Terminated Transactions under the Agreement including, without limitation, Transactions in Shares other than those of the Issuer (collectively, the "Other Shares") and the netting and set-off provisions of the Agreement shall only operate to provide netting and set-off (i) among Terminated Transactions in the Equity Shares and (ii) among Terminated Transactions in the Other Shares. In no event shall the netting and set-off provisions of the Agreement operate to permit netting and set-off between Terminated Transactions in the Equity Shares and Terminated Transactions in the Other Shares.
                    (b) The parties agree to amend Section 6 of the Agreement by adding a new Section 6(f) thereto as follows:
                    14. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 6(d)(ii) of the Agreement, all amounts calculated as being due in respect of an Early Termination Date under Section 6(e) of the Agreement will be payable on the day that notice of the amount payable is effective.
Payment Date Upon Early Termination
                    15. . The Agreement, this Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation and all matters arising in connection with the Agreement, this Master Confirmation and each Supplemental Confirmation shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the law of the State of New York without reference to its choice of law doctrine.
Governing Law
                    16. .
Offices
                    (a) The Office of GS&Co. for each Transaction is: One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004.
                    (b) The Office of Counterparty for each Transaction is: 165 Madison Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38103.
                    17. .
Arbitration
                    (a) All parties to this Confirmation are giving up the right to sue each other in court, including the right to a trial by jury, except as provided by the rules of the arbitration forum in which a claim is filed.
                    (b) Arbitration awards are generally final and binding; a party's ability to have a court reverse or modify an arbitration award is very limited.
                    (c) The ability of the parties to obtain documents, witness statements and other discovery is generally more limited in arbitration than in court proceedings.
                    (d) The arbitrators do not have to explain the reason(s) for their award.
                    (e) The panel of arbitrators will typically include a minority of arbitrators who were or are affiliated with the securities industry, unless Counterparty is a member of the organization sponsoring the arbitration facility, in which case all arbitrators may be affiliated with the securities industry.
                    (f) The rules of some arbitration forums may impose time limits for bringing a claim in arbitration. In some cases, a claim that is ineligible for arbitration may be brought in court.
                    (g) The rules of the arbitration forum in which the claim is filed, and any amendments thereto, shall be incorporated into this Confirmation.
                    (h) Counterparty agrees that any and all controversies that may arise between Counterparty and GS & Co., including, but not limited to, those arising out of or relating to the Agreement or any Transaction hereunder, shall be determined by arbitration conducted before The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NYSE") or NASD Dispute Resolution ("NASD-DR"), or, if the NYSE and NASD-DR decline to hear the matter, before the American Arbitration Association, in accordance with their arbitration rules then in force. The award of the arbitrator shall be final, and judgment upon the award rendered may be entered in any court, state or federal, having jurisdiction.
                    (i) No person shall bring a putative or certified class action to arbitration, nor seek to enforce any pre-dispute arbitration agreement against any person who has initiated in court a putative class action or who is a member of a putative class who has not opted out of the class with respect to any claims encompassed by the putative class action until: (i) the class certification is denied; (ii) the class is decertified; or (iii) Counterparty is excluded from the class by the court.
                    (j) Such forbearance to enforce an agreement to arbitrate shall not constitute a waiver of any rights under this Confirmation except to the extent stated herein.
                    18. Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Master Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by GS&Co.) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty with respect to any Transaction, by manually signing this Master Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, facsimile No. [redacted].
          The purpose of this Supplemental Confirmation is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("GS&Co.") and First Horizon National Corporation ("Counterparty") (together, the "Contracting Parties") on the Trade Date specified below. This Supplemental Confirmation is a binding contract between GS&Co. and Counterparty as of the relevant Trade Date for the Transaction referenced below.
          The definitions and provisions contained in the Master Confirmation specified below are incorporated into this Supplemental Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between those definitions and provisions and this Supplemental Confirmation, this Supplemental Confirmation will govern.
1.       This Supplemental Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to the Master Confirmation dated as of March 1, 2006 (the "Master Confirmation") between the Contracting Parties, as amended and supplemented from time to time. All provisions contained in the Master Confirmation govern this Supplemental Confirmation except as expressly modified below.
2.       The terms of the Transaction to which this Supplemental Confirmation relates are as follows:
3.       Counterparty represents and warrants to GS&Co. that neither it (nor any "affiliated purchaser" as defined in Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act) have made any purchases of blocks pursuant to the proviso in Rule 10b-18(b)(4) under the Exchange Act during the four full calendar weeks immediately preceding the Trade Date, except as otherwise disclosed to GS&Co.
          Counterparty hereby agrees (a) to check this Supplemental Confirmation carefully and immediately upon receipt so that errors or discrepancies can be promptly identified and rectified and (b) to confirm that the foregoing (in the exact form provided by GS&Co.) correctly sets forth the terms of the agreement between GS&Co. and Counterparty with respect to this Transaction, by manually signing this Supplemental Confirmation or this page hereof as evidence of agreement to such terms and providing the other information requested herein and immediately returning an executed copy to Equity Derivatives Documentation Department, facsimile No. [redacted].
                    The following Counterparty Net Share Settlement Procedures shall apply to the extent that Counterparty elects Counterparty Net Share Settlement in accordance with the Master Confirmation:
                    Counterparty Net Share Settlement shall be made by delivery of the number of Shares equal in value to the Forward Cash Settlement Amount (the "Settlement Shares"), with such Shares' value based on the Net Share Settlement Price. Delivery of such Settlement Shares shall be made free of any contractual or other restrictions in good transferable form on the Net Share Settlement Date with Counterparty (i) representing and warranting to GS&Co. at the time of such delivery that it has good, valid and marketable title or right to sell and transfer all such Shares to GS&Co. under the terms of the related Transaction free of any lien charge, claim or other encumbrance and (ii) making the representations and agreements contained in Section 9.11(ii) through (iv) of the Equity Definitions to GS&Co. with respect to the Settlement Shares. GS&Co. or any affiliate of GS&Co. designated by GS&Co. (GS&Co. or such affiliate, "GS") shall resell the Settlement Shares during a period (the "Resale Period") commencing no earlier than the Net Share Valuation Date. The Resale Period shall end on the Exchange Business Day on which GS completes the sale of all Settlement Shares or a sufficient number of Settlement Shares so that the realized net proceeds of such sales exceed the Forward Cash Settlement Amount. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if resale by GS of the Settlement Shares, as determined by GS in its sole discretion conflicts with any legal, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or related policies and procedures applicable to GS (whether or not such requirements, policies or procedures are imposed by law or have been voluntarily adopted by GS), the Resale Period will be postponed or tolled, as the case may be, until such conflict is no longer applicable. During the Resale Period, if the realized net proceeds from the resale of the Settlement Shares exceed the Forward Cash Settlement Amount, GS shall refund such excess in cash to Counterparty by the close of business on the third Exchange Business Day immediately following the last day of the Resale Period. If the Forward Cash Settlement Amount exceeds the realized net proceeds from such resale, Counterparty shall transfer to GS by the open of the regular trading session on the Exchange on the third Scheduled Trading Day immediately following the last day of the Resale Period the amount of such excess (the "Additional Amount") in cash or in the number of Shares ("Make-whole Shares") in an amount that, based on the Net Share Settlement Price on the last day of the Resale Period (as if such day was the "Net Share Valuation Date" for purposes of computing such Net Share Settlement Price), has a dollar value equal to the Additional Amount. The Resale Period shall continue to enable the sale of the Make-whole Shares. If Counterparty elects to pay the Additional Amount in Shares, the requirements and provisions set forth below shall apply. This provision shall be applied successively until the Additional Amount is equal to zero.
Counterparty Net Share Settlement of a Transaction is subject to the following conditions:
Counterparty at its sole expense shall:
                    In the event that the Registration Statement is not declared effective by the Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC") or any of the conditions specified in (ii) through (ix) above are not satisfied on or prior to the Valuation Date (or, in the case of an election of Counterparty Net Share Settlement upon the occurrence of an Extraordinary Event or an Early Termination Date, on or prior to the fifth Exchange Business Day or the first Exchange Business Day following either the Cancellation Date or the Early Termination Date, as the case may be), then Counterparty may deliver Unregistered Shares (as defined below) to GS in accordance with the following conditions. If GS and Counterparty can agree on acceptable pricing, procedures and documentation relating to the sale of such Unregistered Shares (including, without limitation, applicable requirements in (iii) through (ix) above and insofar as pertaining to private offerings), then such Unregistered Shares shall be deemed to be the "Settlement Shares" for the purposes of the related Transaction and the settlement procedure specified in this Annex B shall be followed except that in the event that the Forward Cash Settlement Amount exceeds the proceeds from the sale of such Unregistered Shares then for the purpose of calculating the number of "Make-whole Shares" to be delivered by Counterparty, GS shall determine the discount to the Net Share Settlement Price at which it can sell the Unregistered Shares. Notwithstanding the delivery of the Unregistered Shares, Counterparty shall endeavor in good faith to have a registration statement declared effective by the SEC as soon as practical. In the event that GS has not sold sufficient Unregistered Shares to satisfy Counterparty's obligations to GS contained herein at the time that a Registration Statement covering the offering and sale by GS of a number of Shares equal in value to not less than 150% of the amount then owed to GS is declared effective (based on the Net Share Settlement Price on the Exchange Business Day (as if such Exchange Business Day were the "Net Share Valuation Date" for purposes of computing such Net Share Settlement Price) that the Registration Statement was declared effective), GS shall return all unsold Unregistered Shares to Counterparty and Counterparty shall deliver such number of Shares covered by the effective Registration Statement equal to 100% of the amount then owed to GS based on such Net Share Settlement Price. Such delivered shares shall be deemed to be the "Settlement Shares" for the purposes of the related Transaction and the settlement procedure specified in this Master Confirmation (including the obligation to deliver any Make-whole Shares, if applicable) shall be followed. In all cases GS shall be entitled to take any and all required actions in the course of its sales of the Settlement Shares, including without limitation making sales of the
Unregistered Shares only to "Qualified Institutional Buyers" (as such term is defined under the Securities Act), to ensure that the sales of the Unregistered Shares and the Settlement Shares covered by the Registration Statement are not integrated resulting in a violation of the securities laws and Counterparty agrees to take all actions requested by GS in furtherance thereof.
                    If GS and Counterparty cannot agree on acceptable pricing, procedures and documentation relating to the sales of such Unregistered Shares then the number of Unregistered Shares to be delivered to GS pursuant to the provisions above shall not be based on the Net Share Settlement Price but rather GS shall determine the value attributed to each Unregistered Share in a commercially reasonable manner and based on such value Counterparty shall deliver a number of Shares equal in value to the Forward Cash Settlement Amount. For the purposes hereof "Unregistered Shares" means Shares that have not been registered pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or any state securities laws ("Blue Sky Laws") and that cannot be sold, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of without registration under the Securities Act or under applicable Blue Sky Laws unless such sale, transfer, pledge or other disposition is made in a transaction exempt from registration thereunder.
                    In the event that Counterparty delivers Shares pursuant to an election of Counterparty Net Share Settlement then Counterparty agrees to indemnify and hold harmless GS, its affiliates and its assignees and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons (GS and each such person being an "Indemnified Party") from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (or actions in respect thereof), joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Securities Act or otherwise, (i) relating to or arising out of any of the Transactions contemplated by this Master Confirmation concerning the Shares or (ii) arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any preliminary prospectus, prospectus, Registration Statement or other written material relating to the Shares delivered to prospective purchasers, including in each case any amendments or supplements thereto and including but not limited to any documents deemed to be incorporated in any such document by reference (the "Offering Materials"), or arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state in the Offering Materials a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that, in the case of this clause (ii), Counterparty will not be liable to the extent that any loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission in the Offering Materials made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to Counterparty by GS expressly for use in the Offering Materials, as expressly identified in a letter to be delivered at the closing of the delivery of Shares by Counterparty to GS. The foregoing indemnity shall exclude losses that GS incurs solely by reason of the proceeds from the sale of the Capped Number of Shares being less than the Forward Cash Settlement Amount. Counterparty will not be liable under the foregoing indemnification provision to the extent that any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense is found in a nonappealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from GS's willful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith in performing the services that are subject of this Master Confirmation. If for any reason the foregoing indemnification is unavailable to any Indemnified Party or insufficient to hold harmless any Indemnified Party, then Counterparty shall contribute, to the maximum extent permitted by law, to the amount paid or payable by the Indemnified Party as a result of such loss, claim, damage or liability. In addition, Counterparty will reimburse any Indemnified Party for all expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) as they are incurred (after notice to Counterparty) in connection with the investigation of, preparation for or defense or settlement of any pending or threatened claim or any action, suit or proceeding arising therefrom, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such claim, action, suit or proceeding is initiated or brought by or on behalf of Counterparty. Counterparty also agrees that no Indemnified Party shall have any liability to Counterparty or any person asserting claims on behalf of or in right of Counterparty in connection with or as a result of any matter referred to in the Agreement or this Master Confirmation except to the extent that any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses incurred by Counterparty result from the gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith of the Indemnified Party. This indemnity shall survive the completion of any Transaction contemplated by this Master Confirmation and any assignment and delegation of a Transaction made pursuant to this Master Confirmation or the Agreement shall inure to the benefit of any permitted assignee of GS&Co.
                    In no event shall the number of Settlement Shares (including, without duplication, any Unregistered Shares) and any Make-whole Shares, be greater than the Reserved Shares minus the amount of any Shares actually delivered under any other Transaction(s) under this Master Confirmation (the result of such
calculation, the "Capped Number"). Counterparty represents and warrants (which shall be deemed to be repeated on each day that a Transaction is outstanding) that the Capped Number is equal to or less than the number of Shares determined according to the following formula:


