FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20070117170500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported)  January 17, 2007
 
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code -
(901) 523-4444
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of First Horizon National Corporation Fourth Quarter 2006 Financial Supplement which is scheduled to be released January 17, 2007.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of First Horizon National Corporation's ("Corporation") previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
 
1
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
Name: Marlin L. Mosby III
Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
2
Exhibit Index
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 is not to be considered "filed" under the Exchange Act, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Corporation's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
3
 
 

 
Dear Investor, In conjunction with the release of First Horizon National Corporations fourth quarter results for 2006, we have prepared this financial supplement to assist investors in understanding First Horizon National Corporations financial results. This supplement compares current period results to earnings and other financial information from the previous four quarters. Please feel free to call if you have any additional questions. Regards, Dave Miller, Investor Relations 901-523-4162 dwmiller@firsthorizon.com
 
NM - Not meaningful
 
 
 
  (a) During 2006, FHN sold loans through on-balance sheet securitizations, which were structured as financings for accounting purposes.
  Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
* Includes loans on nonaccrual status.
Yields and corresponding income amounts are adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent. Earning assets yields are expressed net of unearned income. 
Rates are expressed net of unamortized debenture cost for long-term debt. Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income.
 
* Includes loans on nonaccrual status.
Yields and corresponding income amounts are adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent. Earning assets yields are expressed net of unearned income.
Rates are expressed net of unamortized debenture cost for long-term debt. Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income.
 
 


