FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20070419111057.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 13, 2007
 
First Horizon National Corporation
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
(b)        On September 29, 2006, the Corporation announced that Marlin L. Mosby III, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) of the Corporation, expected to change his position within the company and, as a result, will cease to be the principal financial officer of the Corporation. At that time Mr. Mosby agreed to continue to serve as the Corporation's principal financial officer until a successor was named to that position and takes office. The Board of Directors of the Corporation recently named D. Bryan Jordan as that successor (see item 5.02(c) below) and approved terms of employment for him (see item 5.02(e) below). On April 13, 2007, Mr. Jordan accepted the Corporation's offer of employment on those terms. Mr. Mosby will cease to be the principal financial officer of the Corporation when Mr. Jordan's employment commences, which is expected to be on or about May 1, 2007.
 
(c)        The Board of Directors of the Corporation appointed D. Bryan Jordan, age 45, to the position of Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) of the Corporation and of its principal subsidiary, First Tennessee Bank National Association (the "Bank"), subject to his acceptance of employment with the Corporation, to be effective when his employment with the Corporation commences. As with all of the Corporation's executive officers, Mr. Jordan will serve until his successor is elected and qualified. Since 2000, Mr. Jordan has been Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Regions Financial Corporation and its subsidiary Regions Bank.
 
The Board approved the terms of employment offered to Mr. Jordan, which he accepted on April 13, 2007. Those terms are described in item 5.02(e) below.
 
The Bank and its subsidiaries have entered into lending transactions in the ordinary course of business with the Corporation's executive officers, directors, nominees, and their associates, and they expect to have such transactions in the future. Such transactions have been on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral on loans, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with others and have not involved more than the normal risk of collectibility or presented other unfavorable features. From time to time, the Bank and its broker-dealer subsidiaries may sell securities either as agent or as principal to, and the Bank and its subsidiaries have other banking transactions (including deposit accounts and loan-related interest rate swaps) with, the Corporation's executive officers and directors and their associates in the ordinary course of business on terms substantially similar to those available to members of the general public. The Corporation's executive officers and directors do not derive any special benefits from such transactions.
 
(e)        The Board of Directors of the Corporation approved the terms of employment, including compensatory and other arrangements, offered to Mr. Jordan. All terms are subject to Mr. Jordan's acceptance (which occurred on April 13) and to the commencement of his employment with the Corporation (expected to occur May 1, 2007). Specifically:
 
 
employment within 12 months of his start date he will reimburse the Corporation the cash signing/retention bonus in full upon termination. This signing/retention bonus does not count as an "annual bonus" for purposes of calculating benefits that relate to annual bonus amounts, and is separate from any annual bonus that may be paid under the Corporation's 2002 Management Incentive Plan or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
As an executive officer, Mr. Jordan will be eligible to participate in all of the plans and programs of the Corporation currently available for executives, including the following:
 
 
In addition, Mr. Jordan will be eligible to participate in plans and programs available broadly to salaried or full-time employees, such as the Corporation's pension plan, 401(k) savings plan, and health and welfare benefits programs. The foregoing plans and programs are discussed in the Corporation's most recent proxy statement for the annual meeting to be held April 17, 2007 under
 
the heading "Executive Compensation" or under the heading "Vote Item No.2  Re-approval of Our 2002 Management Incentive Plan," and are reflected in multiple exhibits to the Corporation's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year 2006.
 
 
 
 
       
 
Pursuant to Instruction B.4. to Form 8-K and applicable regulations and releases, forms of documents and descriptions of arrangements related to the foregoing matters reported under Item 5.02(e) will be filed as exhibits not later than the Corporation's quarterly report on Form 10-Q applicable to the quarter ending June 30, 2007, except for exhibits filed with this Report. All summaries and descriptions of documents, and of amendments thereto, set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the documents themselves, whether filed as an exhibit hereto or filed as an exhibit to a later report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                   
EXHIBIT 10.7(m)
[Conformed Copy of Offer Letter to D. Bryan Jordan]
 
[FHN Corporate Logo]
 
 
Mr. Bryan Jordan
508 Lake Colony Dr.
Vestavia, AL 35242
 
Dear Bryan:
 
We are delighted to confirm First Horizon's offer of employment to be EVP  Chief Financial Officer with First Horizon National Corporation. Your appointment to this position is subject to approval by the Board of Directors.
 
Here are the details of this offer:
 
 
You will also be able to participate in our corporate benefits package that we call Total Compensation and additional benefits provided to executives at your level. Your Total Compensation includes a variety of resources to help you in Managing Your Family, Money, Health and Career. Health and Dental coverage, Flexible Spending Accounts, the FHN 401(k) Savings Plan with company-matching after one year of service, defined benefit Pension Plan and Executive Survivor Benefit Plan are just some of the benefits included. We provided you with a list of executive benefits earlier. You will hear more about our benefits and resources during your first week with First Horizon.
 
This offer of employment includes the following:
 
 
 
 
All employment is "at will," which means either you or the company can terminate it at any time, with or without cause. This letter does not create any contract of employment for any specific length of time. Also, this offer is contingent upon the confirmation and successful completion (negative test results) of a drug screen test, application, reference check, relocation fee reimbursement agreement, criminal background verification and receipt of a copy of your college diploma. Also, please be prepared to provide proof of citizenship. Under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, employers must examine documents provided by all new employees demonstrating their identity and authorization to work in the United States. As part of this requirement, please provide proof of United States citizenship or your right to work in the U.S. within three days of starting work. Examples of acceptable documentation are a passport, visa or a combination of a driver's license and birth certificate or Social Security card.
 
Please sign and date below and fax to me at (901) 579-2901, and return the original in the enclosed envelope at your convenience. Call me at (901) 523-5192 with any questions.
 
Based on your accomplishments and experience, Bryan, we look forward to your strong contributions to the future of First Horizon. Welcome to the First Horizon senior executive team.
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/ John Daniel
John Daniel
Executive Vice President, Employee Services
 
 
 
 
 
Acknowledged
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


