FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20081103163048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
First Horizon will recognize pre-tax expense of approximately $11 million in the third quarter of 2008 related to Visas settlement with Discover
 
First Horizon is a member of the Visa USA network. On October 3, 2007, the Visa organization of affiliated entities completed a series of global restructuring transactions to combine its affiliated operating companies, including Visa USA, under a single holding company, Visa Inc. (Visa).  Upon completion of the reorganization, the members of the Visa USA network remained contingently liable for certain Visa litigation matters.  On October 27, 2008, Visa announced that it had agreed to settle litigation with Discover Financial Services for $1.9 billion.  $1.7 billion of this settlement amount will be paid from an escrow account established as part of Visas IPO.  In connection with this settlement, First Horizon recognized an $11.0 million increase to its contingent liability for Visa litigation matters within noninterest expense.  All Visa litigation matters for which FHN has a contingent liability are expected to be settled from an escrow established by Visa.  FHN's contingent liability will be reduced as Visa funds the escrow.  The timing of these funding events and the related future reversal of FHN's contingent liability are uncertain at this time.  Following the additional $11.0 million pre-tax expense in third quarter 2008, the current aggregate liability for First Horizons proportionate interest in Visa's litigation matters is $36.7 million.In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the $11.0 million amount should be reflected within the results of operations for third quarter 2008.  Due to the timing of Visas announcement, the amounts included in First Horizon's earnings release dated October 17, 2008, and the related financial supplement and slide presentation did not reflect this adjustment.  Accordingly, First Horizon has revised its financial statements to include this adjustment which will be reflected in the third quarter 2008 Form 10-Q, and with this report amends and supplements its earnings release dated October 17, 2008. The revised financial results are summarized in the table presented as an exhibit to Item 9.01 to this Form 8-K. There is no public announcement of the new information in this Report, including its exhibit, other than this Report.
 
This report, including its exhibit, contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information. Those factors include general economic and financial market conditions, including expectations of and actual timing and amount of interest rate movements including the slope of the yield curve, competition, customer and investor responses to these conditions, ability to execute business plans, geopolitical developments, natural disasters, and items already mentioned in this report, as well as critical accounting estimates and other factors described in First Horizons recent filings with the SEC. First Horizon disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements included herein or therein to reflect future events or developments.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, is not to be considered filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of First Horizon National Corporations (Corporation) previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EX-99.1             Summary Quarterly Results

Exhibit 99.1
 
NM - Not meaningful
* Amount is less than one percent.


