FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20080428065008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01 Other Events
1. Selected First Quarter Earnings Release Highlights
On April 17, 2008, First Horizon National Corporation ("First Horizon") announced its financial results for its first fiscal quarter. Net income was $7.9 million or $0.06 per diluted share in first quarter 2008 compared to a net loss of $248.6 million or $1.97 per diluted share in fourth quarter 2007. The pre-tax loss for First Horizon, before discontinued operations, was $1.1 million in first quarter 2008 compared to a $399.1 million pre-tax loss in fourth quarter 2007. Total revenues were $677.2 million in first quarter compared to $319.0 million in fourth quarter 2007. Noninterest expenses were $438.3 million compared to $561.5 million in fourth quarter 2007. Provision for loan losses increased $83.4 million to $240.0 million in first quarter 2008.
In first quarter 2008, average total loans increased 1 percent in comparison to fourth quarter 2007 as an increase in the mortgage warehouse was offset by a reduction in the national construction portfolios. Total average deposits decreased 9 percent for the same time period, which reflects a continuing shift from wholesale certificates of deposit to more stable funding sources and the divestiture of First Horizon Bank branches. Consolidated net interest margin increased to 2.81 percent from 2.77 percent as the reduction of short-term rates lowered wholesale borrowing costs.
A very challenging industry and economic environment and an active process to identify portfolio deterioration led to increased provisioning and reserves. First Horizon continues to consider near-term strategic alternatives to reduce its mortgage business and intends to continue investing in its regional banking and capital markets businesses.
Additional information concerning those alternatives is presented in section 2 of this Item 8.01.
Performance Highlights (First Quarter 2008 vs. Fourth Quarter 2007)
Segment Revisions Highlight Core Businesses, Provide Visibility Into National Businesses
In first quarter 2008, First Horizon revised its business line segments to better align with its strategic direction, representing a focus on its regional banking franchise and capital markets business. To implement this change, the prior Retail/Commercial Banking segment was split into its major components with the national portions of consumer lending and construction lending assigned to a new National Specialty Lending segment that more appropriately reflects the ongoing wind down of these businesses. Additionally, correspondent banking was shifted from Retail/Commercial Banking to the Capital Markets segment to better represent the complementary nature of these businesses. To reflect its geographic focus, the remaining portions of the Retail/Commercial Banking segment now represent the new Regional Banking segment. All prior period information disclosed below has been revised to conform to the current segment structure and the discussions below are based on the new segment presentation.
Increased Provisioning Reflects Portfolio Deterioration; Charge-Offs Increase Sequentially
The net charge-off ratio was 181 basis points in first quarter 2008 compared to 93 basis points in fourth quarter 2007 as net charge-offs increased to $99.1 million from $50.8 million in fourth quarter 2007. The ratio of allowance to total loans increased to 2.20 percent from 1.55 percent in the prior quarter. Provision for loan losses increased to $240.0 million in first quarter 2008 from $156.6 million in fourth quarter 2007. The provision for first quarter 2008 reflects recognition of portfolio deterioration due to declining economic conditions, especially in national construction and home equity loans. First Horizon continues to apply focused portfolio management activities to identify problem assets. Provisioning for fourth quarter 2007 reflected recognition of inherent losses within residential construction portfolios, including One-Time Close and Homebuilder Finance, related to discontinued product structures and higher-risk national markets such as Florida, California, Virginia, Georgia and Nevada. The nonperforming asset ratio increased to 278 basis points in first quarter 2008 from 166 basis points in fourth quarter 2007.
Table of Contents
Regional Banking Experiences Increased Provisioning, NIM Compression, Benefits of Efficiency Initiatives
Regional Banking recognized a pre-tax loss of $18.2 million for first quarter 2008, compared to pre-tax income of $53.3 million for fourth quarter 2007. The current quarter's loss was primarily driven by an increase in provision expense to $75.3 million from $16.0 million in prior quarter due to increased deterioration in commercial loans. Net interest margin declined to 4.39 percent in the current quarter compared to 4.74 percent in fourth quarter as the effects of Federal Reserve rate reductions were not fully passed through to deposit customers. Excluding deposits held for sale, average core deposits increased 2 percent over prior quarter. Noninterest income was affected by a seasonal decline in fees from deposit accounts. Noninterest expense decreased as the effects of efficiency initiatives more than offset seasonal increases in personnel costs. Additionally, fourth quarter 2007 included recognition of losses on owned real estate and reductions in value of low income housing investments.
Capital Markets Sees Record Fixed Income Revenues, Affected by Provisioning and Credit Disruptions
Capital Markets recognized pre-tax income of $22.8 million in first quarter 2008 compared to $30.9 million of pre-tax income in fourth quarter 2007. This primarily reflects an increase in provision for correspondent banking loans to $15.0 million from $1.2 million. Fixed income sales increased significantly as the Federal Reserve significantly reduced rates during the quarter which resulted in a steeper yield curve. This was partially offset by a decline in other product revenues in comparison to the prior quarter primarily resulting from write downs of the warehouse for the pooled trust preferred product. Noninterest expense increased from higher production levels. Additionally, net interest income improved over fourth quarter.
National Specialty Lending Experiences Impact of Credit Losses, Effects of Winding Down Operations
National Specialty Lending had a pre-tax loss of $120.1 million for first quarter 2008 compared to a pre-tax loss of $116.1 million in fourth quarter 2007. Both quarters' losses primarily resulted from provisioning for loan losses, including the national construction and consumer lending portfolios. Net interest margin declined due to the increase in nonaccrual construction loans. Noninterest income improved sequentially as repurchase reserves decreased in comparison to fourth quarter 2007 which was partially offset by greater declines in servicing asset values for rate decreases in the current quarter. Noninterest expense declined due to the effects of the business wind down initiated during the quarter.
Mortgage Banking Positively Affected by Improved Performance and Accounting Changes
Mortgage Banking pre-tax income was $51.3 million for first quarter 2008 compared to a pre-tax loss of $254.0 million for fourth quarter 2007. Pre-tax earnings for the current quarter were positively affected by approximately $40 million related to the adoption of new accounting standards, including the prospective election of fair value accounting for mortgage warehouse loans. The prior quarter's pre-tax loss primarily reflected recognition of reductions in values of mortgage servicing rights and other retained interests, impairment of goodwill and the continued deterioration of credit markets during the quarter. Additionally, continuing efforts to reposition Mortgage Banking resulted in the sale of $7.5 billion of servicing during first quarter 2008.
Net interest income increased consistent with the increase in warehouse margin and an increase in average warehouse size. Gain on sale margins declined as effects of credit market pricing stresses continued to result in margins significantly below historical experience. The increase in servicing income compared to prior quarter was primarily due to the reduction in value of servicing assets recognized in the prior quarter to reflect lower values from observable market inputs and third party valuations. In addition, better hedging results also positively impacted current quarter performance due to wider mortgage-swap spreads and decreased options expense. Noninterest expense decreased because the impairment of goodwill and recognition of a legal settlement were recognized in the prior quarter. Noninterest expense was also negatively affected in the current quarter by the recognition of origination costs for loans recognized at elected fair value. Previously these costs had been deferred until delivery of the related loans. This effect was offset by a corresponding increase in gain on sale.
Corporate Segment Reflects Visa IPO and Earnings Enhancement Initiatives
The Corporate segment recognized $65.9 million of securities gains from Visa, Inc.'s initial public offering. Additionally, a reversal of non-interest expense totaling $30.0 million was recognized to reflect a partial reduction in the contingent liability for certain Visa litigation matters. Results for first quarter 2008 also include $21.3 million of net charges associated with implementation of restructuring, repositioning and efficiency initiatives.
Table of Contents
Selected Financial Information (unaudited)
SUMMARY QUARTERLY RESULTS Quarterly, Unaudited
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
2. Possible Sale or Downsizing of Mortgage Business
Mortgage Business
First Horizon continues to review its strategy with respect to its mortgage business activities.  Based on its current strategy, First Horizon could sell or significantly reduce portions of its mortgage business.  Currently, First Horizon is actively engaged in efforts to sell or downsize its national mortgage origination and mortgage servicing business activities.  These efforts are not expected to include First Horizon's mortgage loan origination activities associated with its Tennessee-based banking operations. Currently, First Horizon is actively negotiating for a sale of certain parts of its mortgage business, but there can be no certainty that such a transaction will occur or of the final terms of such sale.
If First Horizon is unable to successfully sell portions of its mortgage business as contemplated above, First Horizon may significantly reduce its national mortgage origination activities.  Any closing of the mortgage business or portions thereof would likely involve significant expenses primarily related to employee severance, lease cancellations, and other associated assets.
Selected Financial Data About the Mortgage Business
First Horizon's mortgage segment consists of two principal businesses: origination and servicing. The mortgage segment's contribution to First Horizon's consolidated pre-tax income is set forth below:
     
Dollars in Millions
The mortgage origination business consists largely of offices, employees, and customers throughout national real estate markets. Approximately 4% of the origination volume in fiscal 2007 was conducted through First Tennessee Bank branches and related offices and personnel; the remainder was conducted through First Horizon Home Loans offices and personnel.
3. Business Segment Change
Periodically, First Horizon adapts its segments to reflect the manner in which its chief operating decision makers analyze First Horizon's businesses. Effective January 1, 2008, First Horizon changed its segments to reflect the segregation of its national specialty lending businesses and to provide clarity into its core banking business. As such, the Retail/Commercial Banking segment was divided into separate segments for Regional Banking and National Specialty Lending. Further, correspondent banking activities, which were previously included in the Retail/Commerical Banking segment, were moved to the Capital Markets segment. Accordingly, results for prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the reclassification of such segments.
Financial Information Related to Segment Change
After the segment change, First Horizon has five business segments, Regional Banking, Capital Markets, National Specialty Lending, Mortgage Banking and Corporate. The Regional Banking segment offers financial products and
Table of Contents
services, including traditional lending and deposit taking to retail and commercial customers in Tennessee and the surrounding markets. Additionally, Regional Banking provides investments, insurance, financial planning, trust services and asset management, credit card, cash management, and check clearing services. The Capital Markets segment consists of traditional capital markets securities activities, structured finance, equity research, investment banking, loan sales, portfolio advisory, and correspondent banking. The National Specialty Lending segment consists of traditional consumer and construction lending activities in national markets outside of Tennessee. The Mortgage Banking segment consists of core mortgage banking elements including originations and servicing and the associated ancillary revenues related to these businesses. The Corporate segment consists of restructuring, repositioning and efficiency initiatives, unallocated corporate expenses, expense on subordinated debt issuances and preferred stock, bank-owned life insurance, unallocated interest income associated with excess equity, net impact of raising incremental capital, revenue and expense associated with deferred compensation plans, funds management, and venture capital.
Total revenue, expense and asset levels reflect those which are specifically identifiable or which are allocated based on an internal allocation method. Because the allocations are based on internally developed assignments and allocations, they are to an extent subjective. This assignment and allocation has been consistently applied for all periods presented. The following table reflects the amounts of consolidated revenue, expense, tax, and assets for each segment for the three years ended December 31:
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
Table of Contents
Business Segment Information (continued)
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
Table of Contents
Business Segment Information (continued)
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
Business Segment Reconciliation Amounts reflect Pre-tax Income (in MM's)
Table of Contents
4.
First Horizon First Quarter 2008 Financial Supplement (Selected)
Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference.
5.
First Horizon National Corporation April 2008 Investor Presentation (Selected Slides)
Exhibit 99.2 is hereby incorporated by reference.
6. Amendment of Risk Factor
The third paragraph of the discussion concerning "" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 is amended and restated as follows:
Interest Rate and Yield Curve Risks
     Our mortgage lending business is affected by changes in interest rates in another manner. During the period of loan origination (when loans are in the "pipeline") and prior to the loan's sale in the secondary market (when loans are in the "warehouse"), we are exposed to the risk of interest rate changes for those pipeline loans which we have agreed to lock in the customer's mortgage rate and for all warehouse loans, whether fixed-rate or adjustable-rate. We manage that rate-change risk through hedging activities and other methods; however, it is not possible to eliminate all such risks, and a rate change is just one of the risks that could impact the demand for, and thus the value of, our pipeline and warehouse loans. Additional information concerning those risks and our management of them appears under the caption "Pipeline and Warehouse" beginning on page 46 of the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" section of our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference into our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2007.
     
Weakness in the economy and in the real estate markets in which we operate has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.
     In recent periods our operating results have been adversely affected by weakness in the economy and in real estate markets. In particular, we have experienced significant deterioration in our portfolios of national construction and home equity loans and regional commercial loans. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations continues to decline, this could result in, among other things, a further deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan losses. A portion of our residential mortgage and commercial real estate loan portfolios are comprised of loans to borrowers in certain geographic markets that have been more adversely affected by declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses and declines in new home building, such as certain markets in California, Florida, Northern Virginia/D.C. and Nevada. These factors contributed to our increasing provisions for loan losses in the fourth quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2008 and the potential for future loan losses and loss provisions for the remainder of 2008, which may result in loan loss provisions in excess of charge-offs, higher delinquencies and/or greater charge-offs in future periods, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, further deterioration of the U.S. economy may adversely impact our traditional banking business.
     
The allowance for loan losses may prove inadequate or be negatively affected by credit risk exposures.
     Our banking business depends on the creditworthiness of our borrowing customers. We regularly review the allowance for loan losses for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due loans and nonperforming assets as well as changes in housing price appreciation and depreciation. Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. If the credit quality of our customer base materially weakens, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers changes materially, or if the allowance for loan losses is not adequate, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.
     
Potential regulatory and legislative actions that may adversely affect our mortgage business.
     Legislative and regulatory initiatives by federal, state or local legislative bodies or administrative agencies, if enacted or adopted, could delay foreclosure, provide new defenses to foreclosure or otherwise impair our ability to foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan, adversely affect our rights if a borrower declares bankruptcy, or otherwise adversely affect our rights with respect to borrowers who are in default or who qualify for such initiatives. The outcome of these initiatives is uncertain.
7. Dividend Policy Change
In light of the decline in First Horizon's earnings in recent periods and the difficult market conditions that First Horizon faces, the Board of Directors has determined to cease paying cash dividends commencing with the next quarterly dividend period. Instead, the Board intends to pay a stock dividend with a value equal to the previous $.20 per share cash dividend rate. The Board currently intends to reinstate a cash dividend at an appropriate and prudent level once earnings and other conditions improve sufficiently, consistent with regulatory and other constraints. The Board anticipates that this policy will remain in effect for the foreseeable future.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Table of Contents
     This Current Report on Form 8-K (including information incorporated by reference herein) may contain, among other things, certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to our beliefs, plans, goals, expectations, and estimates. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not a representation of historical information but rather are related to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "should," "is likely," "with," "going forward," and other expression that indicate future events and trends identify forward-looking statements.
     Forward-looking statements are necessarily based upon estimates and assumptions that are inherently subject to significant business, operational, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond First Horizon's control, and many of which are subject to change. Examples of uncertainties and contingencies include, among other important factors: general and local economic and business conditions; recession and other business downturn; expectations of and actual timing and amount of interest rate movements, including the slope of the yield curve, which can have a significant impact on a financial services institution; market and monetary fluctuations including fluctuations in mortgage markets and housing prices; inflation or deflation; customer and investor responses to these conditions; the financial condition of borrowers and other counterparties; market volatility; competition within and outside the financial services industry; geopolitical developments including possible terrorist activity; natural disasters; effectiveness of our hedging practices; technology; demand for our product offerings; new products and services in the industries in which we operate; and critical accounting estimates. Other factors are those inherent in originating, selling, and servicing loans including prepayment risks, pricing concessions, fluctuation in U.S. housing prices, fluctuation of collateral values, and changes in customer profiles. Additionally, the actions of the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, and other regulators; regulatory, administrative, and judicial proceedings and changes in laws and regulations applicable to us; and our success in executing our business plans and strategies and managing the risks involved in the foregoing, could cause actual results to differ, perhaps materially, for those contemplated by the forward-looking statements.
     We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements that are made in this Report. Actual results could differ, possibly materially, because of one or more factors described under "Risk Factors" in this Report and under Item 1A of our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider the factors described above and under "Risk Factors" under Item 1A of our 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K, among others, in evaluating forward-looking statements and assessing First Horizon and its prospects.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 28, 2008
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
SECTION 1  Purpose
This plan shall be known as the "First Horizon National Corporation 2003 Equity Compensation Plan" (the "Plan"). The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of First Horizon National Corporation, a Tennessee corporation (the "Company"), and its shareholders by (i) attracting and retaining officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries, (ii) motivating such individuals by means of performance-related incentives to achieve long-range performance goals, (iii) enabling such individuals to participate in the long-term growth and financial success of the Company, (iv) encouraging ownership of stock in the Company by such individuals, and (v) linking compensation to the long-term interests of shareholders. With respect to any awards granted under the Plan that are intended to comply with the requirements of "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code (as defined below), the Plan shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with such requirements
.
SECTION 2  Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit or Performance Award granted under the Plan, whether singly or in combination, to a Participant pursuant to such terms, conditions, restrictions and/or limitations, if any, as may be established from time to time.
Award
"" shall mean any written or electronic agreement, contract, notice or other instrument or document evidencing any Award, which may, but need not, be executed or acknowledged by a Participant.
Award Agreement
"" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
"" shall mean (i) a Participant's conviction of, or plea of guilty or (or similar plea) to, (A) a misdemeanor charge involving fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, (B) a felony charge or (C) an equivalent charge to those in clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) the engaging by a Participant in any conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) a Participant's failure to perform his or her duties to the Company or its Subsidiaries; (iv) a Participant's violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; (v) a Participant's violation of any policy of the Company or its Subsidiaries concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or a Participant's material violation of any other policy of the Company or its Subsidiaries as in effect from time to time; (vi) the engaging by a Participant in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Company or its Subsidiaries; or (vii) the engaging by the Participant in any conduct detrimental to the Company or its Subsidiaries. The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall also have the authority in its sole discretion to
Cause
nolo contendere
 
waive the consequences under the Plan or any Award Agreement of the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting Cause.
"" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, the occurrence of any one of (and shall be deemed to have occurred on the date of the earliest to occur of) the following events:
Change in Control
 
Computations required by paragraph (iii) shall be made on and as of the date of shareholder approval and shall be based on reasonable assumptions that will result in the lowest percentage obtainable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control of the Company shall not be deemed to have occurred solely because any Person acquires beneficial ownership of more than twenty percent (20%) of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; provided, that if after such acquisition by the Company such Person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such Person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then occur.
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" shall mean a committee of the Board composed solely of not less than two Non-Employee Directors, all of whom shall (i) satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) of the Exchange Act, (ii) be "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) and (iii) otherwise meet any "independence" requirements promulgated by any stock exchange on which the shares are listed. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board.
Committee
"" shall mean First Horizon National Corporation, a Tennessee corporation, and its successors and assigns.
Company
"" shall mean any compensation plan such as an incentive, stock option, restricted stock, pension restoration or deferred compensation plan or any employee benefit plan such as a thrift, pension, profit sharing, medical, disability, accident, life insurance plan or a relocation plan or policy or any other plan, program or policy of the Company intended to benefit employees, including, without limitation, any Compensation Plans established after the date hereof.
Compensation Plans
"" shall mean at any date (i) any individual who, with respect to the previous taxable year of the Company, was a "covered employee" of the Company within the meaning of Section 162(m); provided, however, that the term "Covered Officer" shall not include any such individual who is designated by the Committee, in its discretion, at the time of any Award or at any subsequent time, as reasonably expected not to be such a "covered employee" with respect to the current taxable year of the Company, and (ii) any individual who is designated by the Committee, in its discretion, at the time of any Award or at any subsequent time, as reasonably expected to be such a "covered employee" with respect to the current taxable year of the Company or with respect to the taxable year of the Company in which any applicable Award will be paid.
Covered Officer
"" means any Award that is not an Exempt Award.
Deferred Compensation Award
"" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, a disability that would qualify as a total and permanent disability under the long-term disability plan then in effect at the Employer employing the Participant at the onset of such total and permanent disability.
Disability
"" shall mean an employee of any Employer.
Employee
shall mean the Company or any Subsidiary.
"Employer"
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
Exchange Act
 
"" means any Award that does not constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") under any relevant exception by statute, regulation or rule, specifically including, but not limited to, Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4) (short-term deferrals), 1.409A-1(b)(5) (certain stock options and stock appreciation rights) and 1.409A-1(b)(6) (restricted stock).
Exempt Award
"" with respect to the Shares, shall mean, as of any date, (i) the mean between the high and low sales prices at which Shares were sold on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if the shares are not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on any other such exchange on which the Shares are traded, on such date, or, in the absence of reported sales on such date, the mean between the high and low sales prices on the immediately preceding date on which sales were reported, or (ii) in the event there is no public market for the Shares on such date, the fair market value as determined in good faith by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Fair Market Value
"" shall mean, following notice given by the Participant to the Company:
Good Reason
provided, however, (a) that an isolated and inadvertent action taken in good faith and which is remedied by the Company within ten (10) days after receipt of notice thereof given by the Participant shall not constitute Good Reason, and (b) no action shall constitute a Good Reason if the Participant has acknowledged to the Company in writing that a Good Reason will not arise from that action.
"" shall mean a member of the Board who is not an Employee.
Non-Employee Director
"" shall mean an option to purchase Shares from the Company that is granted under Section 6 or 9 of the Plan and is not intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
Option
shall mean the purchase price payable to purchase one Share upon the exercise of an Option.
"Option Price"
"" shall mean any Employee, Non-Employee Director or Regional Board Member who receives an Award under the Plan.
Participant
 
"" shall mean any right granted under Section 8 of the Plan.
Performance Award
"" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or political subdivision thereof or other entity.
Person
"" shall mean this First Horizon National Corporation 2003 Equity Compensation Plan.
Plan
"" shall mean a termination of the employment of a Participant with the Company resulting from any of the following:
Qualifying Termination
"" shall mean any First Tennessee Bank National Association regional board member and any member of the board of directors of any bank subsidiary of the Company, other than First Tennessee Bank National Association, in each case excluding any Employee.
Regional Board Member
"" shall mean any Share granted under Section 7 or 9 of the Plan.
Restricted Stock
"" shall mean any unit granted under Section 7 or 9 of the Plan.
Restricted Stock Unit
"" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, the Termination of Employment of a Participant after the Participant has fulfilled all age and service requirements for retirement under the terms of the First Horizon National Corporation Pension Plan, as amended from time to time.
Retirement
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.
SEC
"" shall mean Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder and any successor provision thereto as in effect from time to time.
Section 16
"" shall mean Section 162(m) of the Code and the rules promulgated thereunder or any successor provision thereto as in effect from time to time.
Section 162(m)
"" shall mean shares of the common stock, $0.625 par value, as adjusted from time to time for stock splits or reverse stock splits, of the Company.
Shares
"" means a Participant who, as of the date of his separation from service, is a "key employee" of the Company or any Affiliate, any stock of which is actively traded on an established securities market or otherwise. A Participant is a key employee if he or she meets the requirements of Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii) of the Code, (applied in accordance with applicable regulations thereunder and without regard to Section 416(i)(5)) at any time during the 12-month period ending on the Specified Employee Identification Date. Such Participant shall be treated as a key employee for the entire 12-month period beginning on the Specified Employee Effective Date.
Specified Employee
For purposes of determining whether a Participant is a Specified Employee, the compensation of the Participant shall be determined in accordance with the definition of compensation provided under Treas. Reg. Section 1.415(c)-2(d)(3) (wages within the meaning of Section 3401(a) of the Code for purposes of income tax withholding at the source, plus amounts excludible from gross income under Section 125(a), 132(f)(4), 402(e)(3), 402(h)(1)(B), 402(k) or 457(b), without regard to rules that limit the remuneration
 
included in wages based on the nature or location of the employment or the services performed); provided, however, that, with respect to a nonresident alien who is not a Participant in the Plan, compensation shall not include compensation that is not includible in the gross income of such person under Sections 872, 893, 894, 911, 931 and 933, provided such compensation is not effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States.
Notwithstanding anything in this paragraph to the contrary, (i) if a different definition of compensation has been designated by the Company with respect to another nonqualified deferred compensation plan in which a key employee participates, the definition of compensation shall be the definition provided in Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(i)(2), and (ii) the Company may through action that is legally binding with respect to all nonqualified deferred compensation plans maintained by the Company, elect to use a different definition of compensation.
In the event of corporate transactions described in Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(i)(6), the identification of Specified Employees shall be determined in accordance with the default rules described therein, unless the Company elects to utilize the available alternative methodology through designations made within the timeframes specified therein.
"" means September 30, unless the Company has elected a different date through action that is legally binding with respect to all nonqualified deferred compensation plans maintained by the Company.
Specified Employee Identification Date
"" means the first day of the fourth month following the Specified Employee Identification Date, or such earlier date as is selected by the Committee.
Specified Employee Effective Date
"" shall mean a right granted under Section 6 or 9 of the Plan that entitles the holder to receive, with respect to each Share encompassed by the exercise of such SAR, the amount determined by the Committee, or in the case of an Award granted under Section 9 hereof, by the Board, and specified in an Award Agreement. In the absence of such a determination, the holder shall be entitled to receive, with respect to each Share encompassed by the exercise of such SAR, the excess of the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise over the Fair Market Value on the date of grant.
Stock Appreciation Right or SAR
"" shall mean any Person of which a majority of its voting power or its equity securities or equity interest is owned directly or indirectly by the Company.
Subsidiary
"" shall mean Awards granted solely in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a Person acquired by the Company or with which the Company or one of its Subsidiaries combines.
Substitute Awards
"" shall mean the termination of the employee-employer relationship between a Participant and the Employer for any reason, with or without Cause, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, Disability, Workforce Reduction or Retirement, but excluding (i) terminations where there is a simultaneous reemployment or continuing employment of the Participant by another Employer; (ii) at the discretion of the Committee, terminations which result in a temporary severance of the employee-employer relationship; and (iii) at the discretion of the Committee, terminations which are followed by the simultaneous establishment of a consulting relationship by an Employer with the Participant. The Committee, in its absolute discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Employment, including, but not by way of limitation, the question of whether a Termination of Employment resulted from a discharge for Cause, and all questions of whether particular leaves of absence constitute Terminations of Employment. However, notwithstanding any provision of this Plan, an Employer has an absolute and unrestricted right to terminate an Employee's employment at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without Cause.
Termination of Employment
 
"" shall mean any termination of the employee-employer relationship between a Participant and the Employer as a result of the discontinuation by the Company of a business or line of business or a realignment of the Company, or a part thereof, or any other similar type of event, provided that the Committee or the Board has designated such discontinuation, realignment or other event as a "Workforce Reduction" for purposes of this Plan.
Workforce Reduction
SECTION 3  Administration
 
omitted to be taken or any determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award. Each Covered Person shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense (including attorneys' fees) that may be imposed upon or incurred by such Covered Person in connection with or resulting from any action, suit or proceeding to which such Covered Person may be a party or in which such Covered Person may be involved by reason of any action taken or omitted to be taken under the Plan or any Award Agreement and against and from any and all amounts paid by such Covered Person, with the Company's approval, in settlement thereof, or paid by such Covered Person in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding against such Covered Person, provided that the Company shall have the right, at its own expense, to assume and defend any such action, suit or proceeding and, once the Company gives notice of its intent to assume the defense, the Company shall have sole control over such defense with counsel of the Company's choice. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be available to a Covered Person to the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction in a final judgment or other final adjudication, in either case, not subject to further appeal, determines that the acts or omissions of such Covered Person giving rise to the indemnification claim resulted from such Covered Person's bad faith, fraud or willful misconduct. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which Covered Persons may be entitled under the Company's Restated Charter or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any other power that the Company may have to indemnify such persons or hold them harmless.
SECTION 4  Shares Available for Awards
 
SECTION 5  Eligibility
Any Employee (including any officer or employee-director of an Employer), Non-Employee Director or Regional Board Member shall be eligible to be designated a Participant; provided, however, that Non-Employee Directors shall only be eligible to receive Awards granted pursuant to Section 9 hereof.
SECTION 6  Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
 
(i)  Each Option and SAR shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, specify in the applicable Award Agreement or thereafter. The Committee shall have full and complete authority to determine whether an Option or SAR will be exercisable in full at any time or from time to time during the term of the Option or SAR, or to provide for the exercise thereof in such installments, upon the occurrence of such events and at such times during the term of the Option or SAR as the Committee may determine.
(ii) The Committee may impose such conditions with respect to the exercise of Options, including without limitation, any relating to the application of federal, state or foreign securities laws or the Code, as it may deem necessary or advisable. The exercise of any Option granted hereunder shall be effective only at such time as the sale of Shares pursuant to such exercise will not violate any state or federal securities or other laws, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
(iii) An Option or SAR may be exercised in whole or in part at any time, with respect to whole Shares only, within the period permitted thereunder for the exercise thereof, and shall be exercised by written notice of intent to exercise the Option or SAR, delivered to the Company at its principal office, and payment in full to the Company at said office of the amount of the Option Price for the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is then being exercised.
(iv) Payment of the Option Price shall be made in cash or cash equivalents, or, at the discretion of the Committee, (i) by tendering, either by way of actual delivery of Shares or attestation, whole Shares that have been owned by the Option holder for not less than six (6) months, if acquired directly from the Company, or that have been owned for any period of time, if acquired on the open market, prior to the date of exercise, valued at the Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date of exercise, together with any applicable withholding taxes, (ii) by a combination of such cash (or cash equivalents) and such Shares or (iii) by such other method of exercise as may be permitted from time to time by the Committee; provided, however, that the optionee shall not be entitled to tender Shares pursuant to successive, substantially simultaneous exercises of an Option or any other stock option of the Company. Subject to applicable securities laws and at the discretion of the Committee, an Option may also be exercised by delivering a notice of exercise of the Option and simultaneously selling the Shares thereby acquired, pursuant to a brokerage or similar agreement or program approved in advance by the Committee. Until the optionee has been issued the Shares subject to such exercise, he or she shall possess no rights as a shareholder with respect to such Shares and shall not be entitled to any dividend or distribution the record date of which is prior to the date of issuance of such Shares. At the Committee's discretion, the amount payable as a result of the exercise of an SAR may be settled in cash, Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares. A fractional Share shall not be deliverable upon the exercise of a SAR but a cash payment will be made in lieu thereof.
(v) Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, a Participant shall be required to pay to the Company an amount equal to the spread realized in connection with the Participant's exercise of an Option within six months prior to such Participant's termination of employment by resignation in the event that such Participant, within six months following such Participant's termination of employment by resignation, engages directly or indirectly in any activity determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to be competitive with any activity of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries. This subsection (v) shall be void and of no legal effect upon a Change in Control.
 
SECTION 7  Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
(i) Except as provided by Sections 3 and 9 hereof, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Participants to whom Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be granted, the number of shares of Restricted Stock and/or the number of Restricted Stock Units to be granted to each Participant, the duration of the period during which, and the conditions under which, the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be forfeited to the Company, and the other terms and conditions of such Awards. The Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve, which agreements shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions provided hereunder and any additional terms and conditions established by the Committee that are consistent with the terms of the Plan.
(ii) Each Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award made under the Plan shall be for such number of Shares as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the agreement containing the terms of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award. Such agreement shall set forth a period of time during which the grantee must remain in the continuous employment of one or more Employers in order for the forfeiture and transfer restrictions to lapse. If the Committee so determines, the restrictions may lapse during such restricted period in installments with respect to specified portions of the Shares covered by the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit Award. The agreement may also, in the discretion of the Committee, set forth performance or other conditions that, if satisfied, will result in the lapsing of any applicable forfeiture and transfer restrictions. The Committee may, at its discretion, waive all or any part of the restrictions applicable to any or all outstanding Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
SECTION 8  Performance Awards
 
SECTION 9  Non-Employee Director Awards
The Board may provide that all or a portion of a Non-Employee Director's annual retainer and/or meeting fees, or other forms of compensation, be payable (either automatically or at the election of a Non-Employee Director) in the form of Options, SARs, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units. The Board shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Awards, including the terms and conditions which shall apply upon a termination of the Non-Employee Director's service as a member of the Board, and shall have full power and authority in its discretion to administer such Awards, subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law.
SECTION 10  Provisions Applicable to Covered Officers and Performance-Based Awards
Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, unless the Committee determines otherwise, all performance-based Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards or Performance Awards shall be subject to the terms and provisions of this Section 10.
 
SECTION 11  Termination of Employment
The Committee shall have the full power and authority to determine the terms and conditions that shall apply to any Award upon a Termination of Employment and shall provide such terms in the Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing and subject to the limitation contained in the last sentence of Section 6(c) hereof, upon the Termination of Employment as a result of a Workforce Reduction of an Employee who has received an Award of Options, such Options shall expire on the date specified by the Committee at the time of the Termination of Employment, not to exceed five (5) years after the date of such Termination of Employment.
SECTION 12  Change in Control
Upon a Change in Control, all outstanding Awards granted prior to January 16, 2007 shall vest, become immediately exercisable or payable or have all restrictions lifted, as the case may be. Upon a Qualifying Termination following a Change in Control, all outstanding Awards granted on and following January 16, 2007 shall vest, become immediately exercisable or payable or have all restrictions lifted, as the case may be. In addition, an Award Agreement or an individual agreement between the Participant and the Company may provide for additional benefits to the Participant upon a Change in Control.
SECTION 13  Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
For purposes of this Section, a change in the ownership of the Company occurs on the date on which any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company. A change in the effective control of the Company occurs on the date on which either (i) a person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires ownership of stock of the Company possessing 30% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company, taking into account all such stock acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition, or (ii) a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors is
 
replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of such Board of Directors prior to the date of the appointment or election. A change in the ownership of a substantial portion of assets occurs on the date on which any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, other than a person or group of persons that is related to the Company, acquires assets from the Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions, taking into account all such assets acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition.
An event constitutes a Change in Control with respect to a Participant only if the Participant performs services for the Company, or the Participant's relationship to the Company otherwise satisfies the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(ii).
The determination as to the occurrence of a Change in Control shall be based on objective facts and in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
(i) Except in the case of a Participant on a bona fide leave of absence as provided below, a Participant is deemed to have incurred a separation from service if the Company and the Participant reasonably anticipate that the level of services to be performed by the Participant after a date certain would be reduced to twenty percent (20%) or less of the average services rendered by the Participant during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period disregarding periods during which the Participant was on a bona fide leave of absence.
(ii) A Participant who is absent from work due to military leave, sick leave or other bona fide leave of absence shall incur a separation from service on the first day immediately following the later of (a) the six-month anniversary of the commencement of the leave or (b) the expiration of the Participant's right, if any, to reemployment or to return to work under statute or contract.
(iii) For purposes of determine whether a separation from service has occurred, the Company and its affiliates shall be treated as a single employer. For this purpose, an affiliate means a corporation, trade or business that, together with the Company, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code, except that for the foregoing purposes, common ownership of at least fifty percent (50%) shall be determinative.
(iv) The Committee specifically reserves the right to determine whether a sale or other disposition of substantial assets to an unrelated party constitutes a separation from service with respect to a Participant providing services to the seller immediately prior to the transaction and providing services to the buyer after the transaction. Such determination shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
 
SECTION 14  Amendment, Suspension and Termination
SECTION 15  General Provisions
 
 
(i) Neither the Company nor the Committee may accelerate the time or form of payment of any benefit due to the Participant hereunder unless such acceleration is permitted under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-3(j)(4); and
(ii) Neither the Company nor the Committee may delay the time for payment of any benefit due to the Participant hereunder except to the extent permitted under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-2(b)(7).
The provisions of this Subsection (R) shall apply only to Awards made after October 16, 2007.
 
(i) In the event of a material restatement of the Company's financial statements and to the extent permitted by governing law, the Company reserves the right (and in certain cases may have the legal duty) to cause or seek the forfeiture of all or any portion of any Performance Award held by any Participant, and/or the reimbursement by any Participant to the Company of all or any portion of any Performance Award paid (as defined in paragraph (ii) below) to the Participant, for any Performance Award having any performance period beginning on or after January 1, 2008 where:
(ii) For the purposes of this Section a Performance Award is "paid" when, among other things, any one or more of the following occur: the Award results in a cash payment to or for the benefit of the Participant; the Award results in shares issued or delivered to the Participant; or the Award results in an increase in a deferral account of the Participant or otherwise results in any credit for the account or benefit of the Participant. "Payment" may occur, among other things, in connection with an exercise of the Award, the vesting of the Award, the delivery of share certificates to the Participant, or the crediting of shares to a Participant's deferral, brokerage, or other account. The amount "paid" is the amount of dollars or shares or both that is so paid, issued, delivered, increased, or credited. Shares and share units "paid" include all proceeds from those shares, including any cash, stock, or stock unit dividends related to those shares or units, as well as shares or share units from stock splits related to those shares or units. Any Performance Award earned and deferred and any Performance Award payments that are earned and deferred for any reason are subject to this Section as having been "paid," along with all dividends, dividend equivalents, interest, shares, and other amounts earned upon or that are proceeds of the amount or shares deferred. However, if the Participant elects to invest deferred amounts in a manner that results in a loss, the Participant nevertheless may be required to reimburse to the Company the full amount of the Performance Award (measured in dollars or shares, as applicable at the time originally earned) if the conditions of this Section are met.
(iii) For the purposes of this Section, all amounts paid shall be calculated on a gross basis regardless of the net amount remitted to the Participant. For example, if a Participant's Performance Award pays $1,000 gross and, after withholding for taxes and all other reasons, $750 net is remitted directly to the Participant in cash, then under this Section the Company may seek
 
reimbursement of all or any portion of the $1,000 gross amount, provided that the conditions set forth above are met.
(iv) For purposes of this Section, examples of lowering or eliminating a payment based on restated financial results include, among other things: (a) the payment would have been lower or eliminated directly by application of a performance goal based in whole or part on a performance measure that incorporates or is adversely affected by the restated financial results; and (b) the payment would have been lower or eliminated through the exercise of discretion by the Committee if the Committee had known the restated financial results at the time the discretion was exercised.
(v) Any of the Board, the Committee, the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, acting singly based on any good faith suspicion that the conditions of this Section above might be met, may halt and suspend payment of any Performance Award (including payment of any amount deferred in connection with any Performance Award and any earnings thereon or proceeds thereof) until the Board or Committee has investigated, considered, and acted upon the matter hereunder. Any such suspension shall be without interest owed to the Participant if it is later determined that any payment should be made to the Participant after all.
(vi) All Performance Awards under this Plan having any performance period beginning on or after January 1, 2008 are granted and paid subject to the conditions, and the risk of later reimbursement, imposed by this Section. No payment of any Performance Award, whether or not following a suspension, shall operate to waive or diminish the Company's right to seek reimbursement under this Section.
(vii) If the Board acts under this Section, any member of the Board that is a Participant shall recuse him- or herself from participating in the matter as a Board member.
SECTION 16  Term of the Plan

 
Exhibit 10.2
1. . The 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") of First Horizon National Corporation and any successor thereto (the "Company"), is designed to enable employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to obtain a proprietary interest in the Company, and thus to share in the future success of the Company's business. Accordingly, the Plan is intended as a further means not only of attracting and retaining outstanding personnel, but also of promoting a closer identity of interest between employees and shareholders.
Purpose
2. As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
(a) "Cause" shall mean (i) a grantee's conviction of, or plea of guilty or (or similar plea) to, (A) a misdemeanor charge involving fraud, false statements or misleading omissions, wrongful taking, embezzlement, bribery, forgery, counterfeiting or extortion, (B) a felony charge or (C) an equivalent charge to those in clauses (A) and (B) in jurisdictions which do not use those designations; (ii) the engaging by a grantee in any conduct which constitutes an employment disqualification under applicable law (including statutory disqualification as defined under the Exchange Act); (iii) a grantee's failure to perform his or her duties to the Company or its Subsidiaries; (iv) a grantee's violation of any securities or commodities laws, any rules or regulations issued pursuant to such laws, or the rules and regulations of any securities or commodities exchange or association of which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates is a member; (v) a grantee's violation of any policy of the Company or its Subsidiaries concerning hedging or confidential or proprietary information, or a Participant's material violation of any other policy of the Company or its Subsidiaries as in effect from time to time; (vi) the engaging by a grantee in any act or making any statement which impairs, impugns, denigrates, disparages or negatively reflects upon the name, reputation or business interests of the Company or its Subsidiaries; or (vii) the engaging by the grantee in any conduct detrimental to the Company or its Subsidiaries. The determination as to whether Cause has occurred shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee shall also have the authority in its sole discretion to waive the consequences under the Plan or any Award Agreement of the existence or occurrence of any of the events, acts or omissions constituting Cause.
nolo contendere
     (i) individuals who, on January 21, 1997, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to January 21, 1997, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director; , , that no individual elected or nominated as a director of the Company initially as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
provided
however
     (ii) any "Person" (as defined under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and as used in Section 13(d) or Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Companys then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); , , that the event described in this paragraph (ii) shall not be deemed to be a change in control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (A) by the Company or any entity in which the Company directly or indirectly beneficially owns more than 50% of the voting securities or interests (a "Subsidiary"),
=
provided
however
 
(B) by an employee stock ownership or employee benefit plan or trust sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, (C) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (D) pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii));
     (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's shareholders, whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (A) more than 50% of the total voting power of (x) the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (the "Surviving Corporation"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent corporation that directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Surviving Corporation (the "Parent Corporation"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Business Combination), and such voting power among the holders thereof is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities among the holders thereof immediately prior to the Business Combination, (B) no person (other than any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Surviving Corporation or the Parent Corporation), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (A), (B) and (C) above shall be deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
     (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
Computations required by paragraph (iii) shall be made on and as of the date of shareholder approval and shall be based on reasonable assumptions that will result in the lowest percentage obtainable.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a change in control of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; , that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a change in control of the Company shall then occur.
provided
(d) "Compensation Plans" shall mean any compensation plan such as an incentive, stock option, restricted stock, pension restoration or deferred compensation plan or any employee benefit plan such as a thrift, pension, profit sharing, medical, disability, accident, life insurance plan or a relocation plan or policy or any other plan, program or policy of the Company intended to benefit employees, including, without limitation, any Compensation Plans established after the date this Plan is adopted or amended.
(e) "Disability" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable option agreement or grant notice, a disability that would qualify as a total and permanent disability under the long-term disability plan then in effect at the Employer employing the grantee at the onset of such total and permanent disability.
 
(g) Employershall mean the Company or any Subsidiary that employs a grantee of an option under this Plan.
"
"
(h) "Good Reason" shall mean, following notice given by the grantee of an option to the Company:
7. an adverse change in the grantee's status, title or position with the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, including, without limitation, any adverse change in the grantee's status, title or position as a result of a diminution in the grantee's duties or responsibilities, or the assignment to the grantee of any duties or responsibilities which are inconsistent with such status, title, or position as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, or any removal of the grantee from, or any failure to reappoint or reelect the grantee to, such position (except in connection with the termination of the grantee's employment for Cause, Disability or Retirement or as a result of the grantee's death and except by the grantee other than for Good Reason);
8. a reduction by the Company in the grantee's base salary or annual target bonus opportunity (including any adverse change in the formula for such annual bonus target) as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control or as the same may be increased from time to time thereafter;
9. the failure by the Company to provide the grantee with Compensation Plans that provide the grantee with substantially equivalent benefits in the aggregate to the Compensation Plans as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control (at substantially equivalent cost with respect to welfare benefit plans); and
10. the Company's requiring the grantee to be based at an office that is greater than 25 miles from where the grantee's office is located immediately prior to the Change in Control;
provided, however, (a) that an isolated and inadvertent action taken in good faith and which is remedied by the Company within ten (10) days after receipt of notice thereof given by the grantee shall not constitute Good Reason, and (b) no action shall constitute a Good Reason if the grantee has acknowledged to the Company in writing that a Good Reason will not arise from that action.
(i) "Qualifying Termination" shall mean a termination of the employment of a grantee with the Company resulting from any of the following:
11. a termination of the employment or engagement of a grantee by the Company and its Subsidiaries within thirty-six (36) months following a Change in Control, other than a termination for Cause, Disability or Retirement or as a result of the grantee's death; or
12. a termination of employment by a grantee for Good Reason within thirty-six (36) months following a Change in Control.
 
3. The Plan shall become effective upon approval at a shareholder meeting by the holders of a majority of the shares of Company common stock present, or represented, at such meeting and entitled to vote on the Plan. No options may be granted under the Plan after the month and day in the year 2010 corresponding to the day before the month and day on which the Plan becomes effective. The term of options granted on or before such date may, however, extend beyond that date, but no incentive stock options may be granted which are exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the date of the grant.
Effective Date of Plan.
4.
Shares Subject to the Plan.
5.
Plan Administration.
 
6.
Eligibility.
7. The option price per share to be paid by the grantee to the Company upon exercise of the option shall be determined by the Committee, but shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the share at the time the option is granted, nor shall the price per share be less than the par value of the share. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the option price per share may be less than 100% of the fair market value of the share at the time the option is granted if:
Option Price.
"Fair market value" for purposes of the Plan shall be the mean between the high and low sales prices at which shares of the Company were sold on the New York Stock Exchange on the valuation day or, if there were no sales on that day, then on the last day prior to the valuation day during which there were sales. In the event that this method of valuation is not practicable, then the Committee, in its discretion, shall establish the method by which fair market value shall be determined.
8.
Terms or Quotas of Options:
 
     (i) A notice, in the form and by the method (which may include use of a telephone or other means of electronic communication) and at times prescribed by the Committee, specifying the number of shares to be purchased; and
     (ii) A check or money order payable to the Company for the full option price.
In addition, the Committee in its sole discretion may determine that it is an appropriate method of payment for grantees to pay, or make partial payment of, the option price with shares of Company common stock in lieu of cash. In addition, in its sole discretion the Committee may determine that it is an appropriate method of payment for grantees to pay for any shares subject to an option by delivering a properly executed exercise notice together with irrevocable instructions (which may be by the use of a telephone or other means of electronic communication) to a broker to deliver promptly to the Company the amount of sale or loan proceeds to pay the purchase price (a "cashless exercise"). To facilitate the foregoing, the Company may enter into agreements for coordinated procedures with one or more brokerage firms. The value of Company common stock surrendered in payment of the exercise price shall be its fair market value, determined pursuant to Section 7, on the date of exercise. Upon receipt of such notice of exercise of a stock option and upon payment of the option price by a method other than a cashless exercise, the Company shall promptly deliver to the grantee (or, in the event the grantee has executed a deferral agreement, the Company shall deliver to the grantee at the time specified in such deferral agreement) a certificate or certificates for the shares purchased, without charge to him or her for issue or transfer tax.
Neither the Company nor any subsidiary of the Company, nor any of their respective directors or officers shall have any obligation or liability to the grantee of an option or to a successor with respect to any shares as to which the option shall lapse because of such postponement.
 
     (i) to have the Company withhold shares of Company common stock from the shares to be issued upon the exercise of the option;
     (ii) to permit a grantee to tender back shares of Company common stock issued upon the exercise of an option; or
     (iii) to deliver to the Company previously owned shares of Company common stock, having, in the case of (i), (ii), or (iii), a fair market value equal to the amount of the federal, state, and local withholding tax associated with the exercise of the option.
9.
Exercise of Option by Grantee on Cessation of Employment.
 
10. If the grantee of an option shall die while in the employ of the Company or within three months after ceasing to be an employee, and if the option was in effect at the time of his or her death (whether or not its term had then commenced), the option may, until the expiration of three years (unless the option was granted in lieu of compensation, in which case it shall be five years) from the date of death of the grantee or until the earlier expiration of the term of the option, be exercised by the successor of the deceased grantee. Although such exercise is not limited to the exercise rights which had accrued at the date of death of the grantee, such exercise shall be subject to all applicable conditions and restrictions prescribed in Section 8 hereof. The provisions of this Section 10 shall be subject to the Committee's discretion exercised pursuant to Section 9(b) above.
Exercise of Option After Death of Grantee.
11. The Committee in its sole discretion may from time to time permit the method of exercising options known as pyramiding (the automatic application of shares received upon the exercise of a portion of a stock option to satisfy the exercise price for additional portions of the option).
Pyramiding of Options.
12. No person shall have any rights of a shareholder by virtue of a stock option except with respect to shares actually issued to him or her, and issuance of shares shall confer no retroactive right to dividends.
Shareholder Rights.
13. Any increase in the number of outstanding shares of common stock of the Company occurring through stock splits or stock dividends after the adoption of the Plan shall be reflected proportionately:
Adjustment for Changes in Capitalization.
and a proportionate reduction shall be made in the per-share option price as to any outstanding options or portions thereof not yet exercised. Any fractional shares resulting from such adjustments shall be eliminated. If changes in capitalization other than those considered above shall occur, the Board of Directors shall make such adjustments in the number and class of shares for which options may thereafter be granted, and in the number and class of shares remaining subject to options previously granted and in the per-share option price as the Board in its discretion may consider appropriate, and all such adjustments shall be conclusive; provided, however, that the Board shall not make any adjustments with respect to the number of shares subject to previously granted incentive stock options or available for grant as options if such adjustment would constitute the adoption of a new plan requiring shareholder approval before further incentive stock options could be granted.
14. The Board of Directors may at any time terminate, suspend, or modify the Plan, except that the Board of Directors shall not amend the Plan in violation of law. No termination, suspension, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any right acquired by any grantee, or by any successor of a grantee (as provided in Section 10 hereof), under the terms of an option granted before the date of such termination, suspension, or modification, unless such grantee or successor shall consent, but it shall be
Termination, Suspension, or Modification of Plan.
 
conclusively presumed that any adjustment for changes in capitalization as provided in Section 13 does not adversely affect any such right.
15. The proceeds received by the Company from the sale of its shares under the Plan will be used for general corporate purposes.
Application of Proceeds.
16. Neither the adoption of the Plan nor the granting of any stock option shall confer upon the grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or the subsidiary to terminate such employment at any time.
No Right to Employment.
17 The Plan and all determinations thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Tennessee.
Governing Law.
18. This Plan shall bind any successor of the Company, its assets or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place. In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not by the foregoing provision or by operation of law be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Plan, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. The term "Company," as used in the Plan, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Plan.
Successors
.

 
Exhibit 10.3
Article I  Purpose
Section 1.1 The purpose of the Plan is to provide a financial incentive for key executives to encourage and reward desired performance on key financial measures that will further the growth, development and financial success of the Company and to enhance the Company's ability to maintain a competitive position in attracting and retaining qualified key personnel who contribute, and are expected to contribute, materially to the success of the Company. The Plan is designed to replace the existing First Tennessee National Corporation Management Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, and to ensure that awards paid pursuant to this Plan to eligible employees of the Company are tax deductible under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). This Plan shall be submitted to the Company's shareholders for approval pursuant to 26 C.F.R.  1.162.27(e)(4)(vi) at the annual meeting to be held on April 16, 2002, and shall be effective for the 2002 fiscal year commencing on January 1, 2002. If the shareholders do not approve the Plan, the Plan shall not become effective.
Article II  Definitions
Section 2.1 Whenever the following terms are used in this Plan, they shall have the meaning specified below unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary. The masculine pronoun shall include the feminine and neuter and the singular shall include the plural, where the context so indicates.
(a) "" shall mean an incentive compensation award made to a Participant pursuant to this Plan that is subject to and dependent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals.
Award
(b) "" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(c) "" shall mean the occurrence of any one of (and shall be deemed to have occurred on the date of the earliest to occur of) the following events:
Change in Control
 
Computations required by paragraph (iii) shall be made on and as of the date of shareholder approval and shall be based on reasonable assumptions that will result in the lowest percentage obtainable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a change in control of the Company shall not be deemed to have occurred solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than twenty percent (20%) of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding: provided, that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control of the company shall then occur.
(d) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
(e) "" shall mean the Committee designated pursuant to Section 3.1 of this Plan and shall consist solely of two or more members of the Board, appointed by and holding office at the pleasure of the Board, each of whom is both a "non-employee director" as defined by Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
(f) "" shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value $0.625 per share, as adjusted from time to time for stock splits.
Common Stock
(g) "" shall mean First Horizon National Corporation, and its successors and assigns.
Company
(h) "" shall mean the base salary earned by a Participant during any Performance Period.
Compensation
(i) "" shall mean at any date (i) any individual who, with respect to the previous tax year of the Company, was a "covered employee" of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 162(m), excluding any such individual whom the Committee, in its discretion, reasonably expects not to be a "covered employee" with
Covered Officer
 
respect to the current tax year of the Company and (ii) any individual who was not a "covered employee" under Code Section 162(m) for the previous tax year of the Company, but whom the Committee, in its discretion, reasonably expects to be a "covered employee" with respect to the current tax year of the Company or with respect to the tax year of the Company in which any applicable Award will be paid.
(j) "" shall mean a disability that would qualify as a total and permanent disability under the long-term disability plan then in effect at the Company or Subsidiary employing the Participant at the onset of such total and permanent disability.
Disability
(k) "" shall mean the Termination of Employment of a Participant from the employ or service of the Company, or any of its Subsidiaries participating in the First Horizon National Corporation Pension Plan, as amended from time to time, on or after the Participant has attained the age of 55 and 15 years of employment or service with the Company or any of its participating Subsidiaries.
Early Retirement
(l) "" shall mean any employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, whether such employee is so employed at the time this Plan is adopted or becomes so employed subsequent to the adoption of this Plan.
Employee
(m) "" shall mean the Company or a Subsidiary, whichever at the time employs the Employee.
Employer
(n) "" with respect to the Common Stock, shall mean, as of any date, (i) the mean between the high and low sales prices at which shares of Common Stock were sold on the New York Stock Exchange, or any other such exchange on which the Common Stock is traded, on such date, or, in the absence of reported sales on such date, the mean between the high and low sales prices on the immediately preceding date on which sales were reported, or (ii) in the event there is no public market for the Common Stock on such date, the fair market value as determined in good faith by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Fair Market Value
(o) "" shall mean the maximum Award payable under the Plan for the attainment of Performance Goals in any Performance Period, which Award (i) shall be payable for Superior Performance and (ii) shall not exceed the lesser of two and one-half (2 1/2) times the Target Award or $4,000,000 for any Performance Period.
Maximum Award
(p) "" shall mean an Employee who is selected to participate in the Plan.
Participant
(q) "" shall mean the performance goals or targets for the Performance Measures established by the Committee for each Performance Period, the attainment of which is necessary for the payment of an Award to a Participant at the completion of the Performance Period. The level of the attainment of the Performance Goals shall determine the amount of the Award payable hereunder. Performance Goals may be expressed as an absolute amount or percent, as a ratio, or per share or per Employee.
Performance Goals
(r) "" shall mean one or more, or any combination, of the following Company, Subsidiary, operating unit, division, line of business, department, team or business unit financial performance measures: stock price, dividends, total shareholder return, earnings per share, market capitalization, book value, revenues, expenses, loans, deposits, noninterest income, net interest income, fee income, operating income before or after taxes, net income before or after taxes, net income before securities transactions, net or operating income excluding non-recurring charges, return on assets, return on equity, return on capital, cash flow, credit quality, service quality, market share, customer retention, efficiency ratio, strategic business objectives, consisting of one or more objectives based on meeting specified cost targets, business expansion goals, and goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures; and except in the case of a Covered Officer, any other performance criteria established by the Committee, including Personal Plan Goals.
Performance Measures
(s) "" shall mean the fiscal-year period to be used in measuring the degree to which the Performance Goals relating to Awards have been met; provided, however, that for purposes of the initial Performance Period of the Plan, Performance Period shall mean the period commencing on January 1, 2002 and ending December 31, 2002.
Performance Period
 
(t) " shall mean the individual performance goals to be achieved by a Participant in a Performance Period which are not based upon corporate performance, as recommended by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and approved by the Committee.
"Personal Plan Goals
(u) "" shall mean the First Horizon National Corporation 2002 Management Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Plan
(v) "" shall mean the Termination of Employment of a Participant after the Participant (i) has fulfilled all service requirements for a pension under the terms of the First Horizon National Corporation Pension Plan, as amended from time to time, or (ii) has achieved a certain number of years of service with the Company or any Subsidiary participating in the First Horizon National Corporation Pension Plan, as amended from time to time, and attained a certain age, that the sum of the Participant's years of service and age equals or exceeds the number 75.
Retirement
(w) "" shall mean any corporation or other person of which a majority of its voting power or its equity securities or equity interest is owned directly or indirectly by the Company.
Subsidiary
(x) "" shall mean the Performance Goals established for any Performance Period, the attainment of which is necessary for the payment of the Maximum Award for that Performance Period.
Superior Performance
(y) "" shall mean the Award payable to a Participant under the terms of the Plan for the achievement of 100% of the Performance Goal in any Performance Period, expressed as a percentage of a Participant's Compensation in accordance with Section 5.1 of the Plan.
Target Award
(z) "" shall mean the time when the employee-employer relationship between a Participant and the Employer is terminated for any reason, with or without Cause, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by resignation, discharge, death, Disability, Early Retirement or Retirement, but excluding (i) terminations where there is a simultaneous reemployment or continuing employment of a Participant by the Employer; (ii) at the discretion of the Committee, terminations which result in a temporary severance of the employee-employer relationship; and (iii) at the discretion of the Committee, terminations which are followed by the simultaneous establishment of a consulting relationship by the Employer with the former Employee. The Committee, in its absolute discretion, shall determine the effect of all matters and questions relating to Termination of Employment, including, but not by way of limitation, the question of whether a Termination of Employment resulted from a discharge for cause, and all questions of whether particular leaves of absence constitute Terminations of Employment. However, notwithstanding any provision of this Plan, the Employer has an absolute and unrestricted right to terminate an Employee's employment at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in writing.
Termination of Employment
(aa) "" shall mean the level of attainment of the Performance Goal necessary for the payment of any Award upon the completion of any Performance Period.
Threshold Performance
Article III  Plan Administration
Section 3.1 Subject to the authority and powers of the Board in relation to the Plan as hereinafter provided, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee designated by the Board. The Committee shall have full authority to interpret the Plan and from time to time to adopt such rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan for carrying out the Plan as it may deem best in its sole and absolute discretion; provided, however, that the Committee may not exercise any authority otherwise granted to it hereunder if such action would have the effect of increasing the amount of any Award payable hereunder to any Covered Officer. All determinations by the Committee shall be made by the affirmative vote of a majority of those members present at a meeting duly called and held at which a quorum exists, but any determination reduced to writing and signed by all of the members of the Committee shall be fully as effective as if it had been made by a majority vote at a meeting duly called and held. All designations, determinations, interpretations and other decisions of the Committee under or with respect to the provisions of the Plan or any Award and all orders or resolutions of the Board pursuant thereto shall be final,
 
conclusive and binding on all persons, including but not limited to the Participants, the Company and its Subsidiaries and their respective equity holders, heirs, successors and personal representatives.
Section 3.2 The Committee, on behalf of the Participants, shall enforce this Plan in accordance with its terms and shall have all powers necessary for the accomplishment of that purpose, including, but not by way of limitation, the following powers:
Article IV  Participation
Section 4.1 Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may from time to time select any Employee who is a senior officer of the Company or of any Subsidiary to be granted Awards under the Plan. Eligible Employees hired by the Company after the commencement of a Performance Period may receive an Award for the Performance Period which commenced in the fiscal year in which the Employee became employed by the Company, if any is payable under the terms of the Plan, and the Employee is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan at the time the Employee is employed by the Company. Such Award may be paid in full or may be prorated based on the number of full months in the Performance Period the Participant was employed by the Company, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Committee. No Employee shall at any time have the right (a) to be selected as a Participant in the Plan for any Performance Period, (b) if selected as a Participant in the Plan, to be entitled to an Award, or (c) if selected as a Participant in one Performance Period, to be selected as a Participant in any subsequent Performance Period.
Article V  Awards
Section 5.1 The Committee may make Awards to Participants with respect to each Performance Period, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan. Unless specified otherwise by the Committee, the amount payable pursuant to an Award shall be based on a percentage of the Participant's Compensation, with the Target Award set for attaining 100% of the Performance Goal for any Performance Period.
Section 5.2 The Committee shall establish in writing the Performance Goals for the selected Performance Measures applicable to a Performance Period, including the Threshold Performance and Superior Performance, within 90 days of the commencement of the Performance Period and an Award for that Performance Period shall be earned, paid, vested or otherwise deliverable upon the completion of the Performance Period only if such Performance Goals are attained and the applicable employment requirement in Section 6.2(c) is satisfied.
Section 5.3 Performance Goals may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or the Subsidiary, operating unit, division, line of business, department, team, business unit or function within the Company or Subsidiary in which the Participant is employed, and may be expressed on an absolute and/or relative basis, based on or otherwise employ comparisons based on Company internal targets, the past performance of the Company and/or the past or current performance of other
 
companies, the performance of other companies over one or more years, or an index of the performance of other companies, markets or economic metrics over one or more years, and in the case of earnings-based measures, may use or employ comparisons relating to capital, shareholders' equity and/or Common Stock outstanding, or to assets or net assets.
Section 5.4 The degree to which the Company achieves the Performance Goals established by the Committee for a Performance Period shall serve as the basis for the Committee's determination of the Award payable to a Participant upon the completion of the Performance Period. Awards will be prorated for Company performance results occurring between stated performance levels. Company performance below the Threshold Performance will result in no Award payments for that Performance Period. The Award payable for the attainment of Superior Performance shall not exceed two and one-half times the Target Award for any Performance Period.
Section 5.5 With respect to any Covered Officer during any Performance Period, the maximum amount of any Award is $4,000,000.
Section 5.6 Except in the case of Performance Goals related to an Award intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, if the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the Performance Goals and/or Performance Measures established for any Performance Period unsuitable, the Committee, after the commencement of a Performance Period, may modify such Performance Measures and/or Performance Goals, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable.
Article VI  Payment of Awards
Section 6.1 Upon completion of each Performance Period, the Committee shall review Company performance results as compared to the established Performance Goals for that Performance Period, and shall certify (either by written consent or as evidenced by the minutes of a meeting) the specified Performance Goals achieved for the Performance Period (if any) and direct which Award payments, if any, are payable under the Plan. No payment shall be made if the Threshold Performance for the Performance Period is not met. The Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, reduce or eliminate a Participant's Award that would have been otherwise paid, including without limitation by reference to a Participant's failure to achieve his or her Personal Plan Goals.
Section 6.2 The Committee shall have the sole and absolute authority and discretion to determine the time and manner in which Awards, if any, shall be paid under this Plan; provided, however, such discretion may not be exercisable in any manner which would cause the payment of an Award not to satisfy the requirements for a short-term deferral under Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(4). Generally, however, the following provisions may apply:
     (a) Form of Payment: Payment of Awards may be made in a single-sum in cash.
     (b) Date of Payment: Payment of Awards shall be made as soon as practicable (as determined by the Committee) following the close of the Performance Period (the "Payment Date"), but except as expressly provided herein, payment of Awards shall be made on or before the 15 day of the 3 month following the end of the fiscal year of the Company that coincides with the end of the Performance Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing:
th
rd
     (i) To the extent permissible under Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(4)(ii), the Payment Date may be delayed within the discretion of the Committee on the following grounds:
 
Provided, however, any delayed payment shall be made within the period required under the foregoing regulation.
     (ii) Section 6.2(c)(iii) shall control the date or dates of the Payment of Awards to the extent applicable.
     (c) Employment Required: Except as provided below, Participants must be Employees on the Payment Date in order to receive payment of an Award.
     (i) Early Retirement, Retirement, death or Disability during a Performance Period: If, during a Performance Period, a Participant's Termination of Employment by the Company or its Subsidiaries is due to the Early Retirement, Retirement, death or Disability of the Participant, the Participant (or his beneficiary, as the case may be) shall nonetheless receive payment of an Award, if any, after the close of the Performance Period based upon the Performance Goals actually attained by the Company for the Performance Period. The Award, if any, may be paid in full or may be prorated based on the number of full months which have elapsed in the Performance Period as of the date of such Termination of Employment, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Committee. Payments under this Section 6.2(c)(i) shall be made on the Payment Date.
     (ii) Early Retirement, Retirement, death or Disability after Last Day of the Performance Period: If a Participant is an Employee on the last day of a Performance Period, but is not an Employee on the Payment Date due to Early Retirement, Retirement, death or Disability, then the Participant (or his beneficiary, as the case may be) may receive on the Payment Date the full Award earned under the terms of the Plan for the Performance Period, if any. The Award, if any, shall be made on the Payment Date. If a Participant's employment with the Company is terminated for any other reason other than Early Retirement, Retirement, death or Disability after the last day of a Performance Period, but before the Payment Date, the Participant (or his beneficiary, as the case may be) will forfeit all rights to any earned but unpaid Awards for that Performance Period under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may, at any time and in its sole and absolute discretion, authorize a full or partial payment of any earned but unpaid Awards under the Plan.
     (iii) Change in Control: In the event the terms of any agreement entered into by and between the Company and a Participant governs the payment of any Award granted hereunder following a Change in Control, then the payment of such Award shall be governed by the terms and conditions of such agreement and not of this Plan. If the payment of any Award granted hereunder following a Change in Control is not otherwise provided for by the terms of an agreement by and between the Company and a Participant, then the payment of such Award following a Change in Control shall be governed by this Section 6.2(c)(iii). Unless otherwise provided under the terms of an agreement between the Participant and the Company, a Participant shall receive an Award equal to the Target Award the Participant would have received for the Performance Period if the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated during a Performance Period in which there has been a Change in Control, and the Target Award in such event shall be prorated based upon the number of full months which have elapsed in the Performance Period as of the date of such Termination of Employment. If a Participant's employment is terminated following a Performance Period in which there was a Change in Control, but before the Payment Date for that Performance Period, the Participant shall receive the full amount of any Award earned but not yet paid for that Performance Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no payment of an Award shall be made later than the date required under Section 6.2(b).
 
Section 6.3 The Committee in its sole and absolute discretion may decrease the amount payable pursuant to an Award, but in no event shall the Committee have discretion to increase the amount payable to any Covered Officer pursuant to an Award in a manner inconsistent with the requirements for qualified performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m). In interpreting Plan provisions applicable to Performance Goals and Awards, it is the intent of the Plan to conform with the standards of Code Section 162(m) applicable to qualified performance-based compensation, and the Committee in establishing such Performance Goals and interpreting the Plan shall be guided by such provisions.
Article VII  Shares Available for Awards
Section 7.1 Shares of Common Stock shall not be issued or paid in respect of any Awards under the Plan.
Article VIII  Amendment, Modification, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
Section 8.1 The Board may at any time terminate or suspend the Plan, in whole or in part, and from time to time, subject to the shareholder approval requirements of Section 162(m), amend or modify the Plan, provided that, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no such amendment, modification, suspension or termination shall adversely affect the rights of any Participant under any Award previously earned but not yet paid to such Participant without the consent of such Participant. In the event of such termination, in whole or in part, of the Plan, the Committee may in its sole discretion direct the payment to Participants of any amount specified in Article VI and theretofore not paid out, prior to the Payment Date, and in a lump sum on installments as the Committee shall prescribe with respect to each such Participant; provided, however, such payments shall in all events be made within the period permissible for short-term deferrals under Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(4). Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such payment to a Covered Officer must be discounted to reflect the present value of such payment using a rate equal to the discount rate in effect under the First Horizon National Corporation Pension Plan, as amended from time to time, on the date of such payment. The Board may at any time and from time to time delegate to the Committee any or all of its authority under this Article VIII to the extent permitted by law.
Article IX  General Provisions
Section 9.1 Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and provided in the Agreement, no Award or any other benefit under this Plan shall be assignable or otherwise transferable, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Any attempted assignment of an Award or any other benefit under this Plan in violation of this Section 9.1 shall be null and void. A Participant may designate in writing a beneficiary (including the trustee or trustees of a trust) who shall upon the death of such Participant be entitled to receive all amounts payable under the provisions of Section 6.2(c) to such Participant. A Participant may rescind or change any such designation at any time.
Section 9.2 The Company shall have the right to withhold applicable taxes from any Award payment and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for withholding of such taxes.
Section 9.3 No Employee or other person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under this Plan. Neither the Plan nor any action taken thereunder shall be construed as giving an Employee any right to be retained in the employ of the Company or an Employer and the right of the Company or Employer to dismiss or discharge any such Participant is specifically reserved. The benefits provided for Participants under the Plan shall be in addition to, and shall in no way preclude, other forms of compensation to or in respect of such Participants. No Participant shall have any lien on any assets of the Company or any Employer by reason of any Award made under this Plan.
Section 9.4 The payment of all or any portion of the Awards payable to a Participant under this Plan may be deferred by the Participant, subject to such terms and conditions as may be established by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.
 
Section 9.5 This Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant thereto, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Tennessee, without giving effect to the conflicts of law principles thereof.
Section 9.6 The terms of the Plan shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns and the Participants and their legal representatives, and shall bind any successor of the Company, as well as its assets or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place. In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not by the foregoing provision or by operation of law be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations hereunder, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place.
Section 9.7 This Plan shall expire on December 31, 2012, and no new Awards shall be granted under the Plan after that date.
Section 9.8 (a) In the event of a material restatement of the Company's financial statements and to the extent permitted by governing law, the Company reserves the right (and in certain cases may have the legal duty) to cause or seek the forfeiture of all or any portion of any Award held by any Participant, and/or the reimbursement by any Participant to the Company of all or any portion of any Award paid (including any Award earned and deferred) to the Participant, for any Award having any Performance Period beginning on or after January 1, 2008 where:
     (i) the amount or payment of the Award was predicated upon the achievement of financial results of the Company (including any financial reporting segment or unit) or any Subsidiary that were subsequently the subject of a material restatement; and
     (ii) the Board or the Committee concludes in good faith that the Participant engaged in fraud or intentional misconduct that was a material cause of the need for the restatement; and
     (iii) a lower payment or no payment would have been made to the Participant based directly or indirectly upon the restated financial results.
     (b) Award payments that are earned and deferred for any reason are subject to this Section as having been paid, along with all interest and other amounts earned upon the amount deferred. However, if the Participant elects to invest deferred amounts in a manner that results in a loss, the Participant nevertheless may be required to reimburse to the Company the full amount of the Award if the conditions of this Section are met.
     (c) For the purposes of this Section, all amounts paid shall be calculated on a gross basis regardless of the net amount remitted to the Participant. For example, if a Participant's Award pays $1,000 gross and, after withholding for taxes and all other reasons, $750 net is remitted directly to the Participant in cash, then under this Section the Company may seek reimbursement of all or any portion of the $1,000 gross amount, provided that the conditions set forth above are met.
     (d) For purposes of this Section, examples of lowering or eliminating a payment based on restated financial results include, among other things: (i) the payment would have been lower or eliminated directly by application of a Performance Goal based in whole or part on a Performance Measure that incorporates or is adversely affected by the restated financial results; and (ii) the payment would have been lower or eliminated through the exercise of discretion by the Committee if the Committee had known the restated financial results at the time the discretion was exercised.
     (e) Any of the Board, the Committee, the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer, acting singly based on any good faith suspicion that the conditions of this Section above might be met, may halt and suspend payment of any Award (including payment of any amount deferred in connection with any Award and any earnings thereon) until the Board or Committee has investigated, considered, and acted upon the matter hereunder. Any such suspension shall be without interest owed to the Participant if it is later determined that any payment should be made to the Participant after all.
 
     (f) All Awards under this Plan having any Performance Period beginning on or after January 1, 2008 are granted and paid subject to the conditions, and the risk of later reimbursement, imposed by this Section. No payment of any Award, whether or not following a suspension, shall operate to waive or diminish the Company's right to seek reimbursement under this Section.
     (g) If the Board acts under this Section, any member of the Board that is a Participant shall recuse him- or herself from participating in the matter as a Board member.
Section 9.9 All references herein to Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(4) shall be to such regulation as amended from time to time or to any successor provision. The foregoing provisions of this Plan as amended are intended to cause the Plan to conform with the requirements of a plan providing only for short-term deferrals as provided in Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(4), and the provisions of this Plan as amended shall be construed in accordance with that intention. If any provision of this Plan shall be inconsistent or in conflict with any applicable requirements for a short-term deferral plan, then such requirement shall be deemed to override and supersede the inconsistent or conflicting provision. Any required provision of a short-term deferral plan that is omitted from this Plan shall be incorporated herein by reference and shall apply retroactively, if necessary, and be deemed to be a part of this Plan to the same extent as though expressly set forth herein. The Company will bear no responsibility for any determination by any other person or persons that the terms, arrangements or administration of the Plan has given rise to any tax liability under Section 409A of the Code.

 
Exhibit 10.4
     This Amendment to Indemnity Agreement, effective as of , 20___, is made and entered into between First Horizon National Corporation, a Tennessee corporation ("Corporation"), and , a director or officer of Corporation or one of its subsidiaries ("Indemnitee").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, Corporation and Indemnitee previously entered into an Indemnity Agreement dated (the "Agreement") and now desire to amend that Agreement in accordance with the terms hereof;
                    
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the factors stated above, the promises contained herein, and Indemnitee's continuing to serve Corporation directly or, at its request, indirectly through a subsidiary, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
     The definition of "Claim" in Section 1 of the Agreement hereby is amended by adding a new sentence at the end thereof as follows:
Moreover, Claim shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding, or any inquiry or investigation, in any way arising out of or alleging any act, error or omission by the Indemnitee as a controlling person of, or as part of a controlling group with respect to, the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, under any statute, regulation, doctrine, theory, or principle in which liability may be conferred upon a controlling person or group, a person or group exercising control, or any similar status, provided, however, that such control or controlling status derives from or relates to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director or officer of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or is or was serving at the request of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, political action committee, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officers and Indemnitee has duly executed this Agreement, each as of the day first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.5
     This Agreement, effective as of , 20___, is made and entered into between First Horizon National Corporation, a Tennessee corporation ("Corporation"), and , a director or officer of Corporation or one of its subsidiaries ("Indemnitee").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, Corporation desires to attract and retain outstanding persons as directors and officers of it and its subsidiaries; and
     WHEREAS, Corporation and Indemnitee recognize the increased risk of litigation and claims being asserted against directors and certain officers of public companies and their subsidiaries and the need for Corporation to provide protection against personal liability to enhance Indemnitee's effective service to Corporation; and
     WHEREAS, Corporation desires to provide in this Agreement for the indemnification of and advancing of expenses to Indemnitee to the maximum extent permitted (or not prohibited) by law and as set forth in this Agreement and, to the extent such insurance is maintained by Corporation, for the continued coverage of Indemnitee under Corporation's directors and officers liability insurance policies;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the factors stated above, the promises contained herein, and Indemnitee's continuing to serve Corporation directly or, at its request, indirectly through a subsidiary, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:
1. .
Definitions
     (a) "Change in Control" means the occurrence of any one of the following events:
     (i) individuals who, on January 21, 1997, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to January 21, 1997, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director; , , that no individual elected or nominated as a director of the Company initially as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
provided
however
     (ii) any "Person" (as defined under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and as used in Section 13(d) or Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3
 
under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities eligible to vote for the election of the Board (the "Company Voting Securities"); , , that the event described in this paragraph (ii) shall not be deemed to be a change in control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (A) by the Company or any entity in which the Company directly or indirectly beneficially owns more than 50% of the voting securities or interests (a "Subsidiary"), (B) by an employee stock ownership or employee benefit plan or trust sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, (C) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (D) pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii));
provided
however
     (iii) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's shareholders, whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (A) more than 60% of the total voting power of (x) the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (the "Surviving Corporation"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent corporation that directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Surviving Corporation (the "Parent Corporation"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Business Combination), and such voting power among the holders thereof is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities among the holders thereof immediately prior to the Business Combination, (B) no person (other than any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Surviving Corporation or the Parent Corporation), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) and (C) at least two-thirds () of the members of the board of directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (A), (B) and (C) above shall be deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
b
     (iv) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding; , that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional
provided
 
Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a Change in Control of the Company shall then occur.
     (b) "Claim'' is defined as any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding, or any inquiry or investigation, whether conducted by Corporation or any other party, that Indemnitee believes might lead to the institution of any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, or other, in any way arising out of or in connection with or related to any event or occurrence related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director or officer of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or is or was serving at the request of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, political action committee, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacityAs used herein, Claim shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding, or any inquiry or investigation, in any way arising out of or alleging any act, error or omission by the Indemnitee in the rendering or failure to render professional services, including legal and accounting services, for or at the request of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; provided such professional services are within the reasonably anticipated scope of the Indemnitee's duties. Additionally, as used herein, "Claim" shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding arising out of or alleging negligence on the part of the Indemnitee. Moreover, Claim shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding, or any inquiry or investigation, in any way arising out of or alleging any act, error or omission by the Indemnitee as a controlling person of, or as part of a controlling group with respect to, the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, under any statute, regulation, doctrine, theory, or principle in which liability may be conferred upon a controlling person or group, a person or group exercising control, or any similar status, provided, however, that such control or controlling status derives from or relates to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director or officer of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, or is or was serving at the request of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries as a director, officer, employee, trustee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, political action committee, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in any such capacity.
.
     (c) "Expenses" is defined as attorney's fees and all other costs, expenses and obligations paid or incurred in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in or participating in (including any appeals) or preparing to defend, be a witness in or participate in any Claim.
     (d) "Losses'' is defined as any judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement or discharge, including all interest assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection therewith, of a Claim and for which Indemnitee has not been otherwise reimbursed.
     (e) "Reviewing Party" is defined as (i) the directors of Corporation that are not parties to or interested in the Claim (provided that there shall be at least two such independent directors) or (ii) in the event that there are not at least two independent directors or there has been a Change in Control, special, independent counsel, selected in the manner provided in Section 6.
 
2. .
Basic Indemnification
     Subject to the limitations provided in the following sentence and Section 3 herein, Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee in connection with any Claim against any and all Expenses and Losses to the maximum extent permitted (or not prohibited) by law and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall advance Expenses as soon as practicable but in any event no later than 30 days after written demand is presented to Corporation. Except as set forth in Section 4 herein, Indemnitee will not be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement in connection with any Claim initiated by Indemnitee against Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or any director or officer of it or of any of its subsidiaries except for a Claim in which Corporation has joined or the initiation of which the Corporation has consented to. In connection with any determination by Reviewing Party or otherwise as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified under any provision of this Agreement, the burden of proof shall be on Corporation to establish that Indemnitee is not so entitled.
3. .
Limitations on Indemnification
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary (except for any additional rights contemplated by Section l0(b) herein), the obligations of Corporation to indemnify Indemnitee under Section 2 shall be subject to the condition that Reviewing Party shall not have determined that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. Corporation is obligated to advance Expenses within the time period specified in Section 2 herein unless, during such time period and prior to Expense advancement, Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law. If Expenses are advanced and Reviewing Party subsequently determines that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law, Corporation shall be entitled to be reimbursed by Indemnitee (who hereby agrees to reimburse Corporation) for all such amounts theretofore paid; provided, if Indemnitee has commenced legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, any determination made by Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law shall not be binding, and Indemnitee shall not be required to reimburse Corporation for any Expenses advanced until a final judicial determination is made with respect thereto as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed. If there has been no determination by Reviewing Party or Expenses are not advanced within the time frame provided in Section 2 or if Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified in whole under applicable law, Indemnitee shall have the right to commence litigation in any court in the state of Tennessee having subject matter jurisdiction thereof and in which venue is proper seeking an initial determination by the court or challenging any such determination by Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof, and Corporation hereby consents to service of process and to appear in any such proceeding. Any determination by Reviewing Party otherwise shall be conclusive and binding on Corporation and Indemnitee. Corporation shall have the burden of proving that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification in any such legal proceeding.
4. .
Indemnification for Additional Expenses
 
Corporation shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees and all other costs, expenses, and obligations of the same sort as contemplated by Section l(c)) and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall advance such expenses to Indemnitee within 30 days after written demand is presented to Corporation, which expenses are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any claim asserted against or claim or action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advance payment of Expenses by Corporation under this Agreement or for recovery under any directors and officers liability insurance policies maintained by Corporation, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, expense advance or insurance recovery. [Note: The expenses provided in Section 4, which are not repayable to Corporation, are different from the Expenses permitted in Section 2, which must be repaid to Corporation in the situation described in Section 3.]
5. .
Insurance
     To the extent Corporation maintains insurance policies providing directors and officers liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policies, in accordance with their terms, to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any Corporation director or officer.
6. .
Change in Control
     Corporation agrees that if there is a Change in Control, then with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitee to indemnity payments and Expense advances under this Agreement or any other agreement or Corporation Charter or Bylaw provision now in effect or hereafter adopted relating to Claims, Corporation shall seek legal advice only from special, independent counsel selected by Indemnitee and approved by Corporation (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld). Such counsel, among other things, shall render its written opinion to Corporation and Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent Indemnitee would be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. Corporation agrees to pay the fees of the special, independent counsel referred to above and fully to indemnify such counsel against any and all expenses and losses of the same sort as contemplated by Sections l(c) and l(d) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.
7. .
Creation of Trust
     In the event of a Change in Control or if the Board determines that a Change in Control is imminent, Corporation shall (and the appropriate officers of Corporation are hereby authorized and directed to take all action deemed necessary or desirable in connection herewith) upon the written request of Indemnitee, create a trust or appropriately amend an existing trust for the benefit of Indemnitee and from time to time upon written request of Indemnitee shall fund such trust in an amount sufficient to satisfy any and all Expenses reasonably anticipated at the time of each such request and any and all Losses from time to time actually paid or claimed, reasonably anticipated or proposed to be paid. The amount or amounts to be deposited in the trust pursuant to the foregoing shall be determined by Reviewing Party. The trustee shall be chosen by Corporation, but the trustee may not be a party to or interested in a Claim nor may the trustee be any person or entity (or an affiliate thereof) whose direct or indirect ownership of Corporation stock has triggered a Change in Control. Any trust established or amended pursuant hereto shall provide, with respect to the rights and obligations created under this Agreement, that upon a Change in Control (i) the trust shall not be revoked or the principal thereof invaded without the
 
written consent of Indemnitee, (ii) the trustee shall advance any and all Expenses to Indemnitee within thirty days after written demand is presented to the trustee (and Indemnitee hereby agrees to reimburse the trust under the circumstances under which Indemnitee would be required to do so under Section 3 herein), (iii) the trust shall continue to be funded by Corporation in accordance with the funding obligations set forth above, (iv) the trustee shall promptly pay to Indemnitee all amounts for which Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, and (v) all unexpended funds in such trust attributable to a Claim, Expense or Loss of Indemnitee shall revert to Corporation upon a final determination by Reviewing Party or a court of competent jurisdiction that Indemnitee has been fully indemnified under this Agreement. If Section 7(v) would otherwise be applicable, then notwithstanding anything in Section 7(v) to the contrary, at any time a Claim is still pending against a director or officer of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries who has entered into an agreement with Corporation substantially similar to this Agreement, any funds held by the trustee under this Section 7 shall be retained by the trustee until a final determination is made with respect to such Claim and such funds may be used to pay such Claim. Nothing in this Section shall relieve Corporation of any of its obligations under this Agreement.
8. .
Partial Indemnity
     If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by Corporation for some or a portion of the Expenses or Losses but not for the total amount thereof, Corporation shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled.
9. .
Notification
     Promptly after receipt by Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of any Claim with respect to which Indemnitee may seek indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee will notify Corporation of the commencement thereof. The failure of Indemnitee promptly to notify Corporation hereunder shall not, however, relieve Corporation of its obligations hereunder unless and to the extent that Corporation was materially prejudiced by such failure to notify promptly. Corporation will be entitled to participate in a Claim at its own expense and to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to Indemnitee, unless Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest between Corporation and Indemnitee in the conduct of the defense of such action. Even if Indemnitee concludes that no conflict of interest exists, Indemnitee shall retain the right to employ his or her own counsel and participate in such action, suit or proceeding, but the fees and expenses of such counsel incurred after notice from Corporation of its assumption of the defense thereof shall be at the expense of Indemnitee unless (i) the employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been authorized or the defense of the Claim is not permitted to be undertaken by Corporation, or (ii) Corporation shall not in fact have employed counsel to assume such defense. Corporation shall not be liable to indemnify Indemnitee under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of any Claim effected without its written consent. Corporation shall not settle any Claim in any manner which would impose any penalty or limitation on Indemnitee without Indemnitee's written consent. Neither Corporation nor Indemnitee will unreasonably withhold consent to any proposed settlement.
 
10.
Miscellaneous.
     (a) . For purposes of this Agreement, the termination of any claim, action, suit or proceeding, by judgment, order or settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that Indemnitee did not meet any particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law.
Presumptions
     (b) . The rights of Indemnitee hereunder shall be in addition to any other rights Indemnitee may have under Corporation's Charter and Bylaws and the Tennessee Business Corporation Act or otherwise. To the extent that a change in the Tennessee Business Corporation Act (whether by statute or judicial decision) permits greater indemnification by agreement than would be afforded currently under Corporation's Charter and Bylaws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by virtue of this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.
Nonexclusive Rights
     (c) . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Amendment
     (d) . In the event of payment under this Agreement, Corporation shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as may be necessary to enable Corporation effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation
     (e) . Corporation shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment in connection with any Claim made against Indemnitee to the extent Indemnitee has otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, Charter provision, Bylaw, or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder.
Duplicate Payment
     (f) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns (including any direct or indirect successor or assign by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of Corporation), spouses, heirs, and personal and legal representatives. This Agreement shall continue in effect regardless of whether Indemnitee continues to serve as a director or officer of Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or of any other entity at Corporation's request.
Binding Effect
     (g) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall remain enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
     (h) . Section and subsection headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.
Headings of Sections
     (i) . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Tennessee.
Governing Law
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officers and Indemnitee has duly executed this Agreement, each as of the day first above written.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Summary of First Quarter 2008 Significant Items (in millions)
(First Quarter 2008 vs. Fourth Quarter 2007)
Asset Quality
Capital
 
(First Quarter 2008 vs. Fourth Quarter 2007)
Regional Banking
Capital Markets
National Specialty Lending
Mortgage Banking
Corporate Segment
Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Includes loans on nonaccrual status
Income amounts are adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent. Earning assets income is expressed net of unearned income
NM  Not meaningful
 
* Includes loans on nonaccrual status
Yields are adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent. Earning assets yields are expressed net of unearned income.
Rates are expressed net of unamortized debenture cost for long-term debt. Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income. Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
(a) Principally reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed assumptions, mostly due to changes in interest rates
 
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


