FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20081124160331.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 19, 2008
 
First Horizon National Corporation
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                             
 
On November 19, 2008, Robert C. Blattberg announced his retirement, and Mary F. Sammons announced her resignation, from the Board of Directors of First Horizon National Corporation (the "Company"). R. Brad Martin has been appointed to replace Dr. Blattberg as Chairperson of the Board's Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and therefore has become Lead Director under the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
 
On November 19, 2008, the Board of Directors appointed William C. Losch, III to be Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) of the Company, as discussed in item 5.02(c) and (e) below. Thomas C. Adams, Jr. presently serves as the Company's interim principal financial officer and will continue in that capacity until Mr. Losch assumes his new position. It is expected that Mr. Losch will assume his new position with the Company effective January 5, 2009.
 
 
The Board of Directors of the Company appointed William C. Losch, III, age 38, to the position of Executive Vice President  Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) of the Company and of its principal subsidiary, First Tennessee Bank National Association (the "Bank"), to be effective when he assumes his new position, which is expected to be January 5, 2009. As with all of the Company's executive officers, Mr. Losch will serve until his successor is elected and qualified. Previously, Mr. Losch was with Wachovia Corporation for eleven years, serving most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of its Retail and Small Business Banking unit from 2003 to 2005, and as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of its General Bank unit from 2006 to the present.
 
The Compensation Committee of the Board previously approved the terms of Mr. Losch's employment offer, subject to the Board's appointment of Mr. Losch which occurred on November 19. Those terms are described in item 5.02(e) below.
 
The Bank and its subsidiaries have entered into lending transactions in the ordinary course of business with the Company's executive officers, directors, nominees, and their associates, and they expect to have such transactions in the future. Such transactions have been on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral on loans, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with others and have not involved more than the normal risk of collectibility or presented other unfavorable features. From time to time, the Bank and its broker-dealer subsidiaries (either as agent or as principal) may engage in securities transactions with, and the Bank and its subsidiaries have other banking transactions (including deposit accounts and loan-related interest rate swaps) with, the Company's executive officers and directors and their associates in the ordinary course of business on terms substantially similar to those available to members of the general public. The Company's executive officers and directors do not derive any special benefits from such transactions.
 
 
(1)     On November 19, 2008, the Board of Directors elected Mark A. Emkes to the Company's Board of Directors, effective immediately. Mr. Emkes also has been elected to the Board of Directors of the Bank. Mr. Emkes will stand for election to the Board of the Company by the shareholders at the April 2009 annual meeting.
 
 
 
Mr. Emkes is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bridgestone Americas Holding, Inc. and of Bridgestone Firestone North American Tire, LLC headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee, and is a director of Bridgestone Corporation headquartered in Tokyo, Japan. Mr. Emkes has been with the Bridgestone Firestone family of companies for over 30 years, holding positions at various times in the Middle East, Europe, South America, and North America.
 
(2)
  
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Emkes and any other person concerning his selection to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(3)
  
Mr. Emkes has been appointed to serve on the Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.
 
(4)
  
The Bank and its subsidiaries have entered into lending transactions in the ordinary course of business with the Company's executive officers, directors, and their associates, and they expect to have such transactions in the future. Such transactions have been on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral on loans, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with others and have not involved more than the normal risk of collectibility or presented other unfavorable features. From time to time, the Bank and its broker-dealer subsidiaries (either as agent or as principal) may engage in securities transactions with, and the Bank and its subsidiaries have other banking transactions (including deposit accounts and loan-related interest rate swaps) with, the Company's executive officers and directors and their associates in the ordinary course of business on terms substantially similar to those available to members of the general public. The Company's executive officers and directors and their associates do not derive any special benefits from such transactions.
 
(5)
  
Mr. Emkes will be eligible to participate in the Company's active compensation plans and programs for non-employee directors. Additional information concerning the Company's plans and programs for non-employee directors is provided in the following previously-filed material, which is incorporated into this item by reference: the "Director Compensation" section of the Company's proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders appearing on pages 69-77. Because Mr. Emkes was elected in November, under the Company's Director Policy he will receive two-fourths of a normal annual grant of restricted stock units for the year 2008-2009. That pro-rated RSU grant will have a grant-date value of $22,500 and will vest in 2009 in accordance with the Policy.
 
 
On November 14, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the terms of employment, including compensatory and other arrangements, offered to William C. Losch, III as the Company's new principal financial officer. All terms were subject to the appointment of Mr. Losch by the Board (which occurred on November 19, 2008), and all terms are subject to the commencement of his employment with the Company (expected to be effective January 5, 2009). Key terms include:
 
 
 
As an executive officer, Mr. Losch will be eligible to participate in all of the plans and programs of the Company currently available for executives, including the following:
 
 
form will be offered to eligible persons newly hired or promoted. The new form, which will be offered to Mr. Losch, is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Report.
 
In addition, Mr. Losch will be eligible to participate in plans and programs available broadly to salaried or full-time employees, such as the Company's profit-sharing savings plan and its health and welfare benefits programs.
 
The Company's executive and broad-based plans and programs are discussed in the Company's most recent proxy statement for the annual meeting held April 15, 2008 under the heading "Executive Compensation" on pages 22-68, are reflected in multiple exhibits to the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the year 2007 (all of which are identified in that Report as management or executive compensation arrangements), or are described or set forth in the following reports: (i) Item 5.02(e) of, and the exhibits to, the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 25, 2008; (ii) exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, and 10.5 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 28, 2008; (iii) Item 5.02(e) of, and exhibit 10.1 to, the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 14, 2008; and (iv) Item 5.02(e) of, and Exhibit 10.1 to, the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 11, 2008. All of the foregoing is incorporated into this Item by this reference.
 
 
 
 
 
(1)   On November 19, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors amended ARTICLE THREE, Section 3.2 of the Company's Bylaws. The Bylaws are amended immediately as described below. The amended and restated Bylaws are filed herewith as Exhibit 3.2.
 
(2)   The amendment to Section 3.2 decreases the size of the Company's Board of Directors from thirteen to twelve persons. The decrease took effect immediately upon Board approval on November 19, 2008.
 
 
 
 
               
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
_______________________
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
 
All summaries and descriptions of documents, and of amendments thereto, set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the documents themselves, whether filed as an exhibit hereto or filed as an exhibit to a later report.
 
In the agreements referred to in this Report, each party makes representations and warranties to the other party. Those representations and warranties are made only to and for the benefit of the other party in the context of a business agreement. Exceptions to such representations and warranties may be partially or fully waived by such party, or not enforced by such party, in its, his, or her discretion. No such representation or warranty may be relied upon by any other person for any purpose.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                             
EXHIBIT 3.2
BYLAWS OF
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
(As Amended and Restated November 19, 2008)
 
ARTICLE ONE
OFFICES
 
1.1
          
Principal Office.
The principal office of First Horizon National Corporation (the "Corporation") shall be 165 Madison Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee.
 
1.2
          
Other Offices.
The Corporation may have offices at such other places, either within or without the State of Tennessee, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
 
1.3
          
Registered Office.
The registered office of the Corporation required to be maintained in the State of Tennessee shall be the same as its principal office and may be changed from time to time as provided by law.
 
ARTICLE TWO
SHAREHOLDERS
 
2.1
          
Place of Meetings.
Meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation may be held either in the State of Tennessee or elsewhere; but in the absence of notice to the contrary, shareholders' meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in Memphis, Tennessee.
 
2.2
          
Quorum and Adjournments.
The holders of a majority of the shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall be requisite, and shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the shareholders, for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law, the Restated Charter of the Corporation, as amended from time to time (the "Charter"), or these Bylaws. In the event a quorum is not obtained at the meeting, the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time and, whether or not a quorum is obtained at the meeting, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in either case without notice, except as otherwise provided by law, other than announcement at the meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which the requisite amount of voting shares shall be represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
 
2.3
          
Notice of Meetings.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, written notice of the annual and each special meeting stating the date, time and place of the meeting shall be mailed, postage prepaid, or otherwise delivered to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat at such address as appears on the records of shareholders of the Corporation, at least ten (10) days, but not more than two (2) months, prior to the meeting date. In addition, notice of any special meeting shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the person or persons calling the meeting. In the event of an adjournment of a meeting to a date more than four months after the date fixed for the original meeting or the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, a new notice of the adjourned meeting must be given to shareholders as of the new record date. Any previously scheduled meeting may be postponed, and any special meeting may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date scheduled for such meeting.
 
                 
2.4
          
Annual Meetings.
The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held each year on the third Tuesday in April, or if that day is a legal holiday, on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday, at 10:00 a.m. Memphis time or on such other date and/or at such other time as the Board of Directors may fix by resolution by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. At the meeting, the shareholders shall elect by ballot, by plurality vote, directors to succeed the directors whose terms expire at the meeting and may transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
 
2.5
          
Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the shareholders for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called by Chairman of the Board and shall be called by the Chairman of the
 
Board or the Secretary at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors. Only such business within the purpose or purposes described in the notice of the meeting may be conducted at the meeting.
 
2.6
   
Waiver of Notice.
Any shareholder may waive in writing notice of any meeting either before, at or after the meeting. Attendance by a shareholder in person or by proxy at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of objection to lack of notice or defective notice and a waiver of objection to consideration of a matter that was not described in the meeting notice unless the shareholder objects in the manner required by law.
 
2.7
   
Voting.
Unless otherwise required by the Charter, at each meeting of shareholders, each shareholder shall have one vote for each share of stock having voting power registered in the shareholder's name on the records of the Corporation on the record date for that meeting, and every shareholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy appointed by instrument in writing or any other method permitted by law.
 
2.8
   
Procedures for Bringing Business before Shareholder Meeting.
At an annual or special meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be acted upon, as shall have been properly brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders. To be properly brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders, business must be (i) in the case of a special meeting called by the Chairman of the Board or at the request of the Board of Directors, specified in the notice of the special meeting (or any supplement thereto), or (ii) in the case of an annual meeting properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the annual or special meeting by a shareholder. For business to be properly brought before such a meeting of shareholders by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the date of the meeting; provided, however, that if fewer than 100 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholders to be timely must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (i) the day on which such notice of the date of such meeting was mailed or (ii) the day on which such public disclosure was made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before a meeting of shareholders (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the shareholder proposing such business and any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such proposal, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such shareholder on the date of such shareholder's notice and by any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such proposal on the date of such shareholder's notice, and (iv) any material interest of the shareholder in such proposal. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.8. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the Chairman should so determine, the Chairman shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
2.9
   
SEC Proxy Rules.
In addition to complying with the provisions of Section 2.8, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in Section 2.8. Nothing in Section 2.8 shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. For such proposals to be acted upon at a meeting, however, compliance with the notice provisions of Section 2.8 is also required.
 
ARTICLE THREE
DIRECTORS
 
3.1
   
Powers of Directors.
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
3.2
   
Number and Qualifications.
The Board of Directors shall consist of twelve members through December 31, 2008; and beginning on January 1, 2009, the Board of Directors shall consist of eleven members. The Board of Directors has the power to change from time to time the number of directors specified in the preceding sentence. Any such change in the number of directors constituting the Corporation's Board Directors must be made exclusively by means of an amendment to these Bylaws adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors then in office. Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation nor residents of the State of Tennessee.
 
3.3
   
Term of Office.
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Charter, the term of each director hereafter elected shall be from the time of his or her election and qualification until the annual meeting next following such election and until a successor shall have been duly elected and qualified; subject, however, to the right of the removal of any director as provided by law, by the Charter or by these Bylaws.
 
3.4
   
Compensation.
The directors shall be paid for their services on the Board of Directors and on any Committee thereof such compensation (which may include cash, shares of stock of the Corporation and options thereon) and benefits together with reasonable expenses, if any, at such times as may, from time to time, be determined by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors; provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and being compensated therefor.
 
3.5
   
Committees.
The directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may designate an executive committee and other committees, consisting of two or more directors, and may delegate to such committee or committees all such authority of the Board of Directors that it deems desirable, including, without limitation, authority to appoint corporate officers, fix their salaries, and, to the extent such is not provided by law, the Charter or these Bylaws, to establish their authority and responsibility, except that no such committee or committees shall have and exercise the authority of the Board of Directors to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.6
   
Procedures for Director Nominations.
Except as provided in Section 3.7 with respect to vacancies on the Board of Directors, only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.6 shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a meeting of shareholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (ii) by any shareholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.6. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the date of a meeting; provided, however, that if fewer than 100 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (i) the day on which such notice of the date of such meeting was mailed or (ii) the day on which such public disclosure was made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person,
 
(c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person on the date of such shareholder's notice and (d) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or, is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, without limitation, such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (ii) as to the shareholder giving the notice (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such shareholder and any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such nominees and (b) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such shareholder on the date of such shareholder's notice and by any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such nominees on the date of such shareholder's notice. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.6. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the Chairman should so determine, the Chairman shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
3.7
   
Vacancies; Removal from Office.
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Charter, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or any other cause (except removal from office) shall be filled only by the Board of Directors, provided that a quorum is then in office and present, or only by a majority of the directors then in office, if less than a quorum is then in office or by the sole remaining director. Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from removal from office may be filled by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock or, if the shareholders do not so fill such a vacancy, by a majority of the directors then in office. Directors elected to fill a newly created directorship or other vacancy shall hold office for a term expiring at the next shareholders' meeting at which directors are elected and until such director's successor has been duly elected and qualified. A director of the Corporation may be removed by the shareholders only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock.
 
3.8
   
Place of Meetings.
The directors may hold meetings of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof at the principal office of the Corporation in Memphis, Tennessee, or at such other place or places, either in the State of Tennessee or elsewhere, as the Board of Directors or the members of the committee, as applicable, may from time to time determine by resolution or by written consent or as may be specified in the notice of the meeting.
 
3.9
   
Quorum.
A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, without further notice, if the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned are fixed at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken and if the period of adjournment does not exceed thirty (30) days in any one (1) adjournment. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the vote of a greater number is required by law, the Charter, or these Bylaws.
 
3.10
Regular Meetings.
Following each annual meeting of shareholders, the newly elected directors, together with the incumbent directors whose terms do not expire at such meeting, shall meet for the purpose of organization, the appointment of officers and the transaction of other business, and, if a majority of the directors be present at such place, day and hour, no prior notice of such meeting shall be required to be given to the directors. The place, day and hour of such meeting may also be fixed by resolution or by written consent of the directors. In addition, the Board of Directors may approve an annual schedule for additional regular meetings of the Board of Directors and of committees thereof.
 
3.11
Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President (or as to any committee of the Board of Directors, by the person or persons specified in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing the committee) on two days' notice by mail or on one day's notice by telegram or cablegram, or on two hours' notice given personally or by telephone or facsimile transmission to each director (or member of the committee, as appropriate), and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board or Secretary in like manner on the written request of a majority of directors then in office. The notice shall state the day and hour of the meeting and the place where the meeting is to be held. Special
 
meetings of the directors may be held at any time on written waiver of notice or by consent of all the directors, either of which may be given either before, at or after the meeting.
 
3.12
Action without a Meeting.
The directors may (whether acting in lieu of a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof) take action which they are required or permitted to take, without a meeting, on written consent setting forth the action so taken, signed by all of the directors entitled to vote thereon. If all the directors entitled to vote consent to taking such action without a meeting, the affirmative vote of the number of directors necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting is the act of the Board of Directors or committee, as appropriate.
 
3.13
Telephone Meetings.
Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof by, or conduct a meeting through the use of, any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A director so participating is deemed to be present in person at such meeting.
 
ARTICLE FOUR
OFFICERS
 
4.1
   
Designated Officers.
The officers of the Corporation shall consist of such officers as are required by the Tennessee Business Corporation Act and such other officers, including officers identified in Sections 4.8 through 4.23 below, as the Board of Directors determines from time to time, along with such other officers and assistant officers as may be from time to time determined and appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Article Four. The title of any officer may include any additional descriptive designation determined to be appropriate. Any person may hold two or more offices, except that the President shall not also be the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. The officers, other than the Chairman of the Board, need not be directors, and officers need not be shareholders.
 
4.2
   
Appointment of Officers.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4.2, the officers of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Board of Directors at the annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors hereby delegates to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors: (i) the power to create corporate offices; (ii) the power to define the authority and responsibility of such offices, except to the extent such authority or responsibility would not be consistent with the law or the Charter; and (iii) the power to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation except the offices of the Chairman of the Board; Chief Executive Officer; President; Chief Operating Officer; Secretary; any office the incumbent in which is designated by the Board as an Executive Officer (as defined in Section 4.5 hereof); and, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Auditor. In addition, the Board of Directors hereby delegates (a) to the Chief Human Resources Officer the authority to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation of the level of Vice President and below at any time and (b) to the Chief Executive Officer the authority to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation of the level of Executive Vice President and below at any time; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may not delegate such authority with respect to those offices to which the Compensation Committee of the Board can not appoint persons pursuant to clause (iii) above. Notwithstanding the delegation of authority pursuant to this section 4.2 of the Bylaws, the Board of Directors retains the authority to appoint all officers and such other officers and agents as it shall deem necessary, who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
4.3
   
Term.
The officers of the Corporation shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year and until their successors are appointed and qualified, subject to the right of removal specified in Section 4.4 of these Bylaws. The designation of a specified term does not grant to any officer any contract rights.
 
4.4
   
Vacancies, Resignations and Removal.
If the office of any officer or officers becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors or, if such officer was appointed by a committee or another officer, by such committee or such other officer. Any officer may resign at any time by delivering a written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Secretary, or that Executive Officer who is the Chief Human Resources Officer (as defined in Section 4.17) or to whom that Officer reports, or the designee of any of them, which shall be effective upon delivery unless it specifies a later date acceptable to the Corporation. Any Executive Officer (as defined in Section 4.5 below) and the
 
Secretary shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. The Auditor shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee. Any other officer shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, and in the event the officer was, or could have been, appointed by a committee or another officer, then by such other officer or by the affirmative vote of a majority of either such committee or the Board of Directors.
 
4.5
   
Executive Officers.
"Executive Officers" shall be those officers of the Corporation expressly designated from time to time in a resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors as being executive officers' for purposes of these Bylaws or for purposes of any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The fact that an officer's title contains the word "executive" and appears in a Board resolution shall not, by itself, constitute an executive officer designation as provided in this Section.
 
4.6
   
Compensation.
The Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, shall fix the compensation of Executive Officers of the Corporation. The compensation of officers who are not Executive Officers shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, by a committee thereof, or by management under such policies and procedures as shall be established by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
 
                
4.7
Delegation of Officer Duties.
In case of the absence of any officer of the Corporation, or for any reason that the Board of Directors (or, in addition, in the case of any officer appointed by a committee or another officer, such committee or such officer or any other committee or any other officer which could appoint such officer pursuant to Section 4.2 of these Bylaws) may deem sufficient, the Board of Directors (or committee or other officer, as applicable) may delegate, for the time being, the powers or duties, or any of them, of such officer to any other officer, or to any director.
 
4.8
   
Chairman of the Board.
The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be assigned by the Board of Directors. If and at such times as the Board of Directors so determines, the Chairman of the Board may also serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
 
4.9
   
Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for carrying out the orders of and the resolutions and policies adopted by the Board of Directors and shall have general management of the business of the Corporation and shall exercise general supervision over all of its affairs. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. If and at such time as the Board of Directors so determines, the Chief Executive Officer may also serve as the President of the Corporation.
 
4.10
President.
The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation unless the Board of Directors has appointed another person to such office, in which case the President shall be the Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation. The President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, unless the Board of Directors has appointed another person to the office of Chief Operating Officer, the President shall also have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein with respect to the Chief Operating Officer and as are normally incident to the office of Chief Operating Officer and as may be prescribed for the Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.11
Chief Operating Officer.
The Chief Operating Officer, if other than the President, shall have charge of the day-to-day operations of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may
 
be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
 
4.12
Vice Chairmen.
Vice Chairmen shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.13
Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer shall be the principal financial officer of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.14
Chief Credit Officer.
The Chief Credit Officer shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.15
General Counsel.
The General Counsel is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.16
Chief Risk Officer.
The officer in charge of overall risk management, whatever his or her title ("Chief Risk Officer"), shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.17
Chief Human Resources Officer.
The officer in charge of human resources, whatever his or her title ("Chief Human Resources Officer"), shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.18
Business Segment Presidents and Business Segment Chief Operating Officers.
Each officer of the Corporation who is a President or a Chief Operating Officer of a substantial business line, division, segment, or group (as applicable, a "Business Segment President" or "Business Segment Chief Operating Officer") shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to his or her office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer. For this purpose, a business line, division, segment, or group is substantial if its President or Chief Operating Officer is an Executive Officer or if it is expressly identified as a "segment" or "business segment" of the Corporation for financial accounting purposes.
 
4.19
Senior Executive Vice Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice Presidents
.
Each Senior Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, and Vice President shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to his or her office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or, with respect to Vice Presidents only, the Chief Human Resources Officer.
 
4.20
Secretary.
The Secretary is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation. The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in books to be kept for that purpose. The Secretary shall give or cause to be given notice of all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors, shall authenticate records of the Corporation, and shall perform such other duties as are incident to the office or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence or disability of the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary or such other officer or officers as may be authorized by the Board of Directors or Credit Policy & Executive Committee thereof shall perform all the duties and exercise all of the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer shall prescribe. In addition,
 
from time to time officers holding the office of Limited Assistant Secretary may be appointed with such officer's power limited to the power to attest the signature of another officer. Such Limited Assistant Secretary will have no other power as an officer.
 
4.21
               
Treasurer.
The Treasurer shall have the custody of the funds and securities of the Corporation and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer, whenever they may require it, an account of all of his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and at a regular meeting of the Board of Directors preceding the annual shareholders' meeting, a like report for the preceding year. The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept an account of stock registered and transferred in such manner and subject to such regulations as the Board of Directors may prescribe. The Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond, if required by the Board of Directors, in such a sum and in form and with security satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his or her death, resignation or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession, belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer may from time to time prescribe or require. In the absence or disability of the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer shall perform all the duties and exercise all of the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer shall prescribe.
 
4.22
Auditor.
The Auditor shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
 
4.23
Chief Accounting Officer
.
The Chief Accounting Officer shall be the principal accounting officer of the Corporation. The Chief Accounting Officer is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall assist the management of the Corporation in setting the financial goals and policies of the Corporation, shall provide financial and statistical information to the shareholders and to the management of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President or the Chief Operating Officer.
 
4.24
Other Officers.
Officers holding such other offices as may be created pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of these Bylaws shall have such authority and perform such duties and exercise such powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or, with respect to officers of the level of Vice President and below, the Chief Human Resources Officer.
 
4.25
Officer Committees.
The directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may designate one or more committees, consisting of two or more officers, and may delegate to such committee or committees all such authority that the Board of Directors deems desirable that is permitted by law. Members of such committees may take action without a meeting and may participate in meetings to the same extent and in the same manner that directors may take action and may participate pursuant to Sections 3.12 and 3.13 of these Bylaws.
 
ARTICLE FIVE
SHARES OF STOCK
 
5.1
   
Certificates.
The certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation shall be numbered, shall be entered in the books or records of the Corporation as they are issued, and shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer and any one of the following: the President, the Treasurer, or the
 
Secretary. Either or both of the signatures upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent, or registered by a registrar other than an officer or employee of the Corporation. Each certificate shall include the following upon the face thereof:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2
   
Shares Not Represented by Certificates.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.1 of these Bylaws, shares of any class of stock of the Corporation may be issued without certificates. The Corporation shall send to each shareholder to whom uncertificated shares have been issued or transferred at the appropriate time any written statement providing information about such shares, which is required by law.
 
5.3
   
Stock Transfers and Record Dates.
Transfers of shares of stock shall be made upon the books of the Corporation by the record owner or by an attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and upon surrender of any certificate therefor. The Board of Directors may appoint suitable agents in Memphis, Tennessee, and elsewhere to facilitate transfers by shareholders under such regulations as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The transfer books may be closed by the Board of Directors for such period, not to exceed 40 days, as may be deemed advisable for dividend or other purposes, or in lieu of closing the books, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for determining shareholders entitled notice of and to vote at a meeting of shareholders, or entitled to payment of any dividend or other distribution. The record date for voting or taking other action as shareholders shall not be less than 10 days nor more than 70 days prior to the meeting date or action requiring such determination of shareholders. The record date for dividends and other distributions shall not be less than 10 days prior to the payment date of the dividend or other distribution. All certificates surrendered to the Corporation for transfer shall be canceled, and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for like number of shares shall have been surrendered and canceled, except that in case of a lost or destroyed certificate a new one may be issued on the terms prescribed by Section 5.5 of these Bylaws.
 
5.4
   
Record Owners.
The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof; and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as required by applicable law.
 
5.5
   
Lost, Destroyed, Stolen or Mutilated Certificates.
The agent for transfer of the Corporation's stock may issue new share certificates in place of certificates represented to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated upon receiving an indemnity satisfactory to the agent and the Secretary or Treasurer of the Corporation, without further action of the Board of Directors.
 
ARTICLE SIX
INDEMNIFICATION
 
6.1
   
Indemnification of Officers When Wholly Successful.
If any current or former officer of the Corporation [including for purposes of this Article an individual who, while an officer, is or was serving another corporation or other enterprise (including an employee benefit plan and a political action committee, which serves the interests of the employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries) in any capacity at the request of the
 
Corporation and unless the context requires otherwise the estate or personal representative of such officer] is wholly successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative and whether formal or informal ("Proceeding"), to which the officer was a party because he or she is or was an officer of the Corporation, the officer shall be indemnified by the Corporation against all reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred in connection with such Proceeding, or any appeal therein. As used in this Article, "Proceeding" shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, and whether formal or informal, arising out of or alleging any acts, errors, or omissions by the officer in the rendering or failure to render professional services, including legal and accounting services, for or at the request of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; provided such professional services are within the reasonably anticipated scope of the officer's duties. Additionally, as used in this Article, "Proceeding" shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding arising out of or alleging negligence on the part of the Officer.
 
6.2
   
Indemnification of Officers When Not Wholly Successful.
If any current or former officer of the Corporation has not been wholly successful on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of a Proceeding, to which the officer was or was threatened to be made a party because he or she was or is an officer, the officer shall be indemnified by the Corporation against any judgment, settlement, penalty, fine (including any excise tax assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan), or other liability and any reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred as a result of such Proceeding, or any appeal therein, if authorized in the specific case after a determination has been made that indemnification is permissible because the following standard of conduct has been met:
 
 
 
 
provided, however, the Corporation may not indemnify an officer in connection with a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation in which the officer was adjudged liable to the Corporation or in connection with any other proceeding charging improper benefit to the officer, whether or not involving action in his or her official capacity, in which the officer was adjudged liable on the basis that personal benefit was improperly received by the officer.
 
6.3
   
Procedures for Indemnification Determinations.
The determination required by Section 6.2 herein shall be made as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4
   
Serving at the Request of the Corporation.
An officer of the Corporation shall be deemed to be serving another corporation or other enterprise or employee benefit plan or political action committee at the request of the Corporation only if such request is reflected in the records of the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors for the purpose of making such requests. Approval by the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, may occur before or after commencement of such service by the officer.
 
6.5
   
Advancement of Expenses.
The Corporation shall pay for or reimburse reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred by an officer who is a party to a Proceeding in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding if:
 
 
 
 
6.6
  
Undertaking Required for Expenses.
The undertaking required by Section 6.5 herein must be an unlimited general obligation of the officer but need not be secured and may be accepted without reference to financial ability to make repayment.
 
6.7
   
Procedures for Expense Determinations.
Determinations and authorizations of payments under Section 6.5 herein shall be made in the same manner as is specified in Section 6.3 herein.
 
6.8
  
Indemnification of Employees and Former Directors.
Every employee and every former director of the Corporation shall be indemnified by the Corporation to the same extent as officers of the Corporation.
 
6.9
   
Nonexclusivity of Right of Indemnification.
The right of indemnification set forth above shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights, including, but not limited to, rights created pursuant to Section 6.11 of these Bylaws, to which an officer, employee, or former director seeking indemnification may be entitled. No combination of rights shall permit any officer, employee or former director of the Corporation to receive a double or greater recovery.
 
6.10
Mandatory Indemnification of Directors and Designated Officers.
The Corporation shall indemnify each of its directors and such of the non-director officers of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries as the Board of Directors may designate, and shall advance expenses, including attorney's fees, to each director and such designated officers, to the maximum extent permitted (or not prohibited) by law, and in accordance with the foregoing, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to enter into individual indemnity agreements on behalf of the Corporation with each director and such designated officers which provide for such indemnification and expense advancement and to adopt resolutions which provide for such indemnification and expense advancement.
 
6.11
Insurance.
Notwithstanding anything in this Article Six to the contrary, the Corporation shall have the additional power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation, or who, while a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee, or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, political action committee, or other enterprise, against liability asserted against or incurred by the person in that capacity or arising from the person's status as a director, officer, employee, or agent, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify the person against the same liability.
 
 
 
ARTICLE SEVEN
RETIREMENT
 
7.1
   
Non-Employee Directors.
Directors who are not also officers of the Corporation or its affiliates shall be retired from the Board of Directors as follows:
 
 
 
Directors who are also officers of the Corporation or any of its affiliates will be retired from the Board of Directors on the date of the annual meeting coincident with or next following the date of the director's retirement from or other discontinuation of active service with the Corporation and its affiliates.
 
7.2
   
Officers and Employees.
Except as provided in the following sentence, the Corporation has no compulsory retirement age for its officers or employees. Each officer or employee who has attained 65 years of age and who, for the two-year period immediately before attaining such age, has been employed in a "bona fide executive" or a "high policy-making" position as those terms are used and defined in the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Section 12(c), and the regulations relating to that section prescribed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, all as amended from time to time (collectively, the "ADEA"), shall automatically be terminated by way of compulsory retirement and his or her salary discontinued on the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following the 65th birthday, provided such employee is entitled to an immediate nonforfeitable annual retirement benefit, as specified in the ADEA, in the aggregate amount of at least $44,000. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may continue any such officer or employee in service and designate the capacity in which he or she shall serve, and shall fix the remuneration he or she shall receive. The Board of Directors may also re-employ any former officer who had theretofore been retired.
 
ARTICLE EIGHT
EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
 
8.1
   
Definition of "Document."
For purposes of this Article Eight of the Bylaws, the term "document" shall mean a document of any type, including, but not limited to, an agreement, contract, instrument, power of attorney, endorsement, assignment, transfer, stock or bond power, deed, mortgage, deed of trust, lease, indenture, conveyance, proxy, waiver, consent, certificate, declaration, receipt, discharge, release, satisfaction, settlement, schedule, account, affidavit, security, bill, acceptance, bond, undertaking, check, note or other evidence of indebtedness, draft, guaranty, letter of credit, and order.
 
 
 
8.2
   
Execution of Documents.
Except as expressly provided in Section 4.20 of these Bylaws (with respect to the Limited Assistant Secretary)and Section 5.1 of these Bylaws (with respect to signatures on certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation), the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, any Vice Chairman, any Business Segment President, any Business Segment Chief Operating Officer, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Credit Officer, the General Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Treasurer, the Secretary, and any other officer, or any of them acting individually, may (i) execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of the Corporation or in the name and on behalf of any division or department of the Corporation any document pertaining to the business, affairs, or property of the Corporation or any division or department of the Corporation, and (ii) delegate to any other officer, employee or agent of the Corporation the power to execute and deliver any such document.
 
8.3
   
Method of Execution by Secretary and Other Officers.
Unless otherwise required by law, the signature of the Secretary on any document may be a facsimile, and the signature of any other officer approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary, before or after the fact, to use a facsimile signature on any document may be a facsimile. The Secretary shall maintain a list of all officers approved to use a facsimile signature.
 
ARTICLE NINE
EMERGENCY BYLAWS
 
9.1
   
Definition of "Emergency."
The provisions of this Article Nine shall be effective only during an "emergency." An "emergency" shall be deemed to exist whenever any two of the officers identified in Section 9.2 of these Bylaws in good faith determine that a quorum of the directors cannot readily be assembled because of a catastrophic event.
 
9.2
   
Notice of Meeting.
A meeting of the Board of Directors may be called by any one director or by any one of the following officers: Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, the Chief Operating Officer, any Vice Chairman, any Business Segment President, any Business Segment Chief Operating Officer, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, General Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, Secretary, or any Executive Officer. Notice of such meeting need be given only to those directors whom it is practical to reach by any means the person calling the meeting deems feasible, including, but not limited to, by publication and radio. Such notice shall be given at least two hours prior to commencement of the meeting.
 
9.3
   
Quorum and Substitute Directors.
. If a quorum has not been obtained, then one or more officers of the Corporation or the Bank present at the emergency meeting of the Board of Directors, as are necessary to achieve a quorum, shall be considered to be substitute directors for purposes of the meeting, and shall serve in order of rank, and within the same rank in order of seniority determined by hire date by the Corporation, the Bank or any of their subsidiaries. In the event that less than a quorum of the directors (including any officers who serve as substitute directors for the meeting) are present, those directors present (including such officers serving as substitute directors) shall constitute a quorum.
 
9.4
   
Action at Meeting.
The Board as constituted pursuant to Section 9.3 and after notice has been provided pursuant to Section 9.2 may take any of the following actions: (i) prescribe emergency powers of the Corporation, (ii) delegate to any officer or director any of the powers of the Board of Directors, (iii) designate lines of succession of officers and agents in the event that any of them are unable to discharge their duties, (iv) relocate the principal office or designate alternative or multiple principal offices, and (v) take any other action that is convenient, helpful, or necessary to carry on the business of the Corporation.
 
9.5
   
Effectiveness of Non-emergency Bylaws.
All provisions of these Bylaws not contained in this Article Nine, which are consistent with the emergency bylaws contained in Article Nine, shall remain effective during the emergency.
 
9.6
   
Termination of Emergency.
Any emergency causing this Article Nine to become operative shall be deemed to be terminated whenever either of the following conditions is met: (i) the directors and any substitute
 
directors determine by a majority vote at a meeting that the emergency is over or (ii) a majority of the directors elected pursuant to the provisions of these Bylaws other than this Article Nine hold a meeting and determine that the emergency is over.
 
9.7
   
Action Taken in Good Faith.
Any corporate action taken in good faith in accordance with the provisions of this Article Nine binds the Corporation and may not be used to impose liability on any director, substitute director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation.
 
ARTICLE TEN
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
 
10.1
Fiscal Year.
The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have authority from time to time to determine whether the Corporation shall operate upon a calendar year basis or upon a fiscal year basis, and if the latter, said Board of Directors shall have power to determine when the said fiscal year shall begin and end.
 
10.2
Dividends.
Dividends on the capital stock of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting pursuant to law. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purposes as the directors shall think conducive to the interest of the Corporation.
 
10.3
Seal.
This Corporation shall have a Corporate Seal which shall consist of an imprint of the name of the Corporation, the state of its incorporation, the year of incorporation and the words "Corporate Seal." The Corporate Seal shall not be required to establish the validity or authenticity of any document executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation.
 
10.4
Notices.
Whenever notice is required to be given to any director, officer or shareholder under any of the provisions of the law, the Charter, or these Bylaws (except for notice required by Sections 2.8 and 3.6 of these Bylaws), it shall not be construed to require personal notice, but such notice may be given in writing by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or by telegram, teletype, facsimile transmission or other form of wire, wireless, or other electronic communication or by private carrier addressed to such shareholder at such address as appears on the Corporation's current record of shareholders, and addressed to such director or officer at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation. If mailed as provided above, notice to a shareholder shall be deemed to be effective at the time when it is deposited in the mail.
 
10.5
Bylaw Amendments.
The Board of Directors shall have power to make, amend and repeal the Bylaws or any Bylaw of the Corporation by vote of not less than a majority of the directors then in office, at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. The shareholders may make, amend and repeal the Bylaws or any Bylaw of this Corporation at any annual meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock, and all Bylaws made by the directors may be amended or repealed by the shareholders only by the vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock. Without further authorization, at any time the Bylaws are amended, the Secretary is authorized to restate the Bylaws to reflect such amendment, and the Bylaws, as so restated, shall be the Bylaws of the Corporation.
 
10.6
Authority to Vote Shares.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, any Business Segment President or Business Segment Chief Operating Officer who is an Executive Officer, or the designee or designees of them or any of them, are authorized, jointly or severally, to vote all shares (or other indicia of ownership) beneficially owned by the Corporation for any purposes and to take any action on behalf of the Corporation that is required to be taken by the Corporation as a shareholder or other beneficial owner of any entity whose shares (or other indicia of ownership) are beneficially owned by the Corporation, which they, or any of them, deem appropriate at meetings, annual or special, or without a meeting.
 
 
 

                                 
EXHIBIT 10.1
 
[First Horizon logo graphic]
 
November 14, 2008
 
William C. (BJ) Losch, III
10813 Congressional Club Drive
Charlotte, North Carolina 28277
 
Dear BJ:
 
We are pleased to offer you the position of EVP  Chief Financial Officer (subject to approval by the Board of Directors) of
First Horizon National Corporation ("FHN").
Your previous experience and professional goals indicate that you have the potential to be a high-performing employee. We look forward to having you join our team!
 
Here are the details of this offer:
 
 
You will also be able to participate in our corporate benefits package that we call Total Compensation. Your Total Compensation includes a variety of resources to help you in Managing Your Family, Money, Health and Career. Health and Dental coverage, Flexible Spending Accounts, the FHN 401(k) Savings Plan with company-matching after one year of service, and Group Life Insurance are just some of the benefits included. You will hear more about our benefits and resources during your first week with FHN.
 
This offer of employment includes the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Your employment is "at will," which means either you or the company can terminate it at any time, with or without cause. This letter does not create any contract of employment for any specific length of time. The company reserves the right to change compensation & benefits plans and programs from time to time. Also, this offer is contingent upon the confirmation and successful completion (negative test results) of a drug screen test, application, reference check, criminal background verification, fee reimbursement agreement, satisfactory related party transaction disclosure, and receipt of a copy of all college-level or higher diplomas that you have earned.
 
We hope that you find the details in this offer letter to be acceptable. To confirm your acceptance of this offer, please fax me a signed & dated copy of this offer letter to 901-523-5646.
 
If you have any questions, please contact me at (901) 523-5192.
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/ John Daniel
John Daniel
Executive Vice President, Human Resources
 
Cc:Employee Services File
 
 
 
Acknowledged
 
 
 
Please return signed and dated letter to:
 
John Daniel
901-523-5646 (fax)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                                   
EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
_____________ , 20___
 
 
[Name]
[Address]
 
 
Dear :
 
First Horizon National Corporation, a Tennessee corporation (including any successor thereto, the "Company"), considers the establishment and maintenance of a sound and vital management to be essential to protecting and enhancing the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. In this connection, the Company recognizes that, as is the case with many publicly held corporations, the possibility of a change in control may arise and that such possibility, and the uncertainty and questions which it may raise among management, may result in the departure or distraction of management personnel to the detriment of the Company and its shareholders. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of members of the Company's management to their assigned duties without distraction in circumstances arising from the possibility of a change in control of the Company. In particular, the Board believes it important, should the Company or its shareholders receive a proposal for transfer of control of the Company, that you be able, if requested, to assess and advise the Board whether such proposal would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and to take such other action regarding such proposal as the Board might determine to be appropriate, without being influenced by the uncertainties of your own situation.
 
In order to induce you to remain in the employ of the Company, this letter agreement, which has been approved by the Board, sets forth certain benefits which the Company agrees will be provided to you in the event of a "change in control" of the Company under the circumstances described below.
 
 
(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (ii) below, the Company or you may terminate your employment at any time, subject to the Company's providing the benefits hereinafter specified in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
(ii) In the event a tender offer or exchange offer is made by a Person (as hereinafter defined) for more than 20 percent (20%) of the combined voting power of the Company's outstanding securities ordinarily having the right to vote at elections of directors, including
 
shares of the common capital stock of First Horizon National Corporation, par value $0
.
625 per share (the "Company Voting Securities"), you agree that you will not leave the employ of the Company (other than as a result of Disability, Retirement, or upon an event which would constitute Good Reason if such event occurred after a change in control of the Company, as such terms are hereinafter defined) and will render the services contemplated in the recitals to this Agreement until such tender offer or exchange offer has been abandoned or terminated or a change in control of the Company, as defined in Section 3 hereof, has occurred;
provided
,
however
, that such obligation shall not extend for a period exceeding one hundred and eighty (180) days from the initial event resulting in the obligation under this paragraph (ii). For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Person" shall mean and include any individual, corporation, partnership, group, association or other "person", as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and as used in Section 13(d) or Section 14(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, an entity in which the Company directly or indirectly beneficially owns more than 50% of the voting securities or interests (a "Subsidiary"), or any employee stock ownership or other employee benefit plan or trust sponsored by the Company or a Subsidiary.
 
 
This Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue in effect until you or the Company shall have given three (3) years prior written notice of termination of this Agreement;
provided
, that, notwithstanding the delivery of any such notice, this Agreement shall continue in effect for a period of thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, as defined in Section 3 hereof, if such change in control shall have occurred during the term of this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2 to the contrary, this Agreement shall terminate if you or the Company terminate your employment prior to a change in control of the Company, unless you reasonably demonstrate that such termination of employment was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a change in control or otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a change in control, in which case your employment shall for all purposes of this Agreement be deemed to have been terminated by you for Good Reason immediately following a change in control of the Company.
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, a "change in control" means the occurrence of any one of the following events:
 
(i)
             
individuals who, on January 21, 1997, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent to January 21, 1997, whose election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of the Incumbent Directors then on the Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without written objection to such nomination) shall be an Incumbent Director;
provided
,
however
, that no individual elected or nominated as a director of the Company initially as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to directors or as a result of any other actual or threatened solicitation of
 
proxies or consents by or on behalf of any person other than the Board shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director;
 
(ii)
           
any Person is or becomes a "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company Voting Securities;
provided
,
however
, that the event described in this paragraph (ii) shall not be deemed to be a change in control by virtue of any of the following acquisitions: (A) by any underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities, or (B) pursuant to a Non-Qualifying Transaction (as defined in paragraph (iii));
 
(iii)
          
the consummation of a merger, consolidation, share exchange or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that requires the approval of the Company's stockholders, whether for such transaction or the issuance of securities in the transaction (a "Business Combination"), unless immediately following such Business Combination: (A) more than 60% of the total voting power of (x) the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (the "Surviving Corporation"), or (y) if applicable, the ultimate parent corporation that directly or indirectly has beneficial ownership of 100% of the voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Surviving Corporation (the "Parent Corporation"), is represented by Company Voting Securities that were outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of such Business Combination (or, if applicable, is represented by shares into which such Company Voting Securities were converted pursuant to such Business Combination), and such voting power among the holders thereof is in substantially the same proportion as the voting power of such Company Voting Securities among the holders thereof immediately prior to the Business Combination, (B) no person (other than any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Surviving Corporation or the Parent Corporation), is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 20% or more of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities eligible to elect directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) and (C) at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the board of directors of the Parent Corporation (or, if there is no Parent Corporation, the Surviving Corporation) were Incumbent Directors at the time of the Board's approval of the execution of the initial agreement providing for such Business Combination (any Business Combination which satisfies all of the criteria specified in (A), (B) and (C) above shall be deemed to be a "Non-Qualifying Transaction"); or
 
(iv)
          
the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a change in control of the Company shall not be deemed to occur solely because any person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the Company Voting Securities as a result of the acquisition of Company Voting Securities by the Company which reduces the number of Company Voting Securities outstanding;
provided
, that if after such acquisition by the Company such person becomes the beneficial owner of additional Company Voting Securities that increases the percentage of outstanding Company Voting Securities beneficially owned by such person, a change in control of the Company shall then occur.
 
 
 
 
If any of the events described in Section 3 hereof constituting a change in control of the Company shall have occurred, you shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 5 upon your termination of employment within thirty-six (36) months following such change in control; provided, however, that you shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 5(ix) whether or not your employment has been terminated. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability," "Retirement," "Cause" and "Good Reason" have the meanings set forth below in this Section 4.
 
(i)
Disability
. Termination by the Company of your employment based on "Disability" shall mean termination because of your "disability" under the Company's Long Term Disability Plan, or any successor or substitute plan or plans of the Company, in effect immediately prior to the change in control of the Company.
 
(ii)
Retirement
. Termination by you or by the Company of your employment based on "Retirement" shall mean termination as a result of your mandatory retirement in accordance with the Company's retirement policy generally applicable to similarly situated officers, as in effect immediately prior to the change in control of the Company, or in accordance with any retirement arrangement established with your written consent.
 
(iii)
Cause
. Termination by the Company of your employment for "Cause" shall mean termination upon (a) the willful and continued failure by you to perform substantially your duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which such person believes that you have not substantially performed your duties
or have failed to follow the policies and procedures of the Company, which failure to perform causes material and demonstrable economic harm to the Company or its Affiliates, (b) the willful engaging by you in illegal conduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company, (c) the conviction of, or a plea of guilty or
nolo
contendere
to, a felony, (d) the failure by you to cooperate with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding concerning the Company, (e) the willful and material breach by you of Section 6 of this Agreement or the Company's written code of business conduct and ethics (however, to the extent the breach is curable, the Company must give you notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure), (f) your becoming subject to the prohibitions of Section 19(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Section 21C(f) of the Exchange Act or (g) the failure by you to comply with the terms of this Agreement, including but not limited to Section 6
.
For purposes of this paragraph (iii), no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be considered "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you in bad faith and without reasonable belief that your action or omission was in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company or its Affiliates. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer or other senior executive officer of the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by you in good faith and in the best interests of the Company and its Affiliates. For purposes of this Agreement, "Affiliate" means any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or
 
under common control with the Company. It is also expressly understood that your attention to matters or your engagement in activities not directly related to the business of the Company shall not provide a basis for termination for Cause so long as the Board has approved your engagement in such activities prior to or following a change in control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of clause (a), (b), (d), (e), or (g) of this paragraph (iii), you shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4) of the entire membership of the Board (excluding you if you are a Board member) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to you and an opportunity for you, together with your counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board you were guilty of the conduct set forth above in such clause of this paragraph (iii) and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. The Company must notify you of any event constituting Cause within ninety (90) days following the Company's knowledge of its existence or such event shall not constitute Cause under this Agreement. The Company may place you on paid leave for up to 30 consecutive days while it is determining whether there is a basis to terminate your employment for Cause. This leave will not constitute Good Reason
.
 
(iv)
Good Reason
. Termination of your employment by you for "Good Reason" shall mean termination based upon the occurrence after a change in control of the Company of any of the following events, without your written consent specifically acknowledging that any such event shall not give rise to Good Reason under this Agreement:
 
(A) a material adverse change in your authority, duties or responsibilities with the Company as in effect immediately prior to the change in control, including, without limitation, the assignment to you of any duties or responsibilities which are inconsistent with such status, title(s), or position(s) as in effect immediately prior to the change in control, or any removal of you from, or any failure to reappoint or reelect you to, such position(s) (except in connection with the termination of your employment for Cause, Disability or Retirement or as a result of your death or by you other than for Good Reason);
 
(B) a material reduction by the Company in your aggregate base salary or annual target bonus opportunity (including any material adverse change in the formula for such annual bonus target) as in effect immediately prior to the change in control or as the same may be increased from time to time thereafter;
 
(C) the failure by the Company to provide you with Plans that provide you with equivalent benefits in the aggregate to the Plans as in effect immediately prior to the change in control (at substantially equivalent cost with respect to welfare benefit plans), in each case which would materially adversely affect you;
 
(D) the Company's requiring you to be based at an office that is greater than 25 miles from where your office is located immediately prior to the change in control;
 
(E) the failure by the Company to obtain from any Successor (as hereinafter defined) the assent to this Agreement contemplated by Section 7 hereof; or
 
 
(F) any purported termination by the Company of your employment which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of paragraph (v) below (and, if applicable, paragraph (iii) above); and for purposes of this Agreement, no such purported termination shall be effective.
 
An isolated and inadvertent action taken in good faith and which is remedied by the Company within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice thereof given by you describing in reasonable detail the Good Reason event that has occurred (which notice in any event must be provided within ninety (90) days of you obtaining knowledge of such event) shall not constitute Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Plan" shall mean any compensation plan such as an incentive, stock option, restricted stock, pension restoration or deferred compensation plan or any employee benefit plan such as a thrift, pension, profit sharing, medical, disability, accident, life insurance plan or a relocation plan or policy or any other plan, program or policy of the Company intended to benefit employees, including, without limitation, any Plans established after the date hereof.
 
(v)
Notice of Termination
. Any purported termination by the Company or by you following a change in control shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon.
 
(vi)
Date of Termination
. "Date of Termination" means (A) the effective date on which your employment by the Company terminates as specified in a prior written notice by the Company or you, as the case may be, to the other, delivered pursuant to Section 11 or (B) if your
employment by the Company terminates by reason of death, the date of your
death. In the case of termination by the Company of your employment for Cause, if you have not previously expressly agreed in writing to the termination, then within thirty (30) days after receipt by you of the Notice of Termination with respect thereto, you may notify the Company that a dispute exists concerning the termination, in which event the Date of Termination shall be the date set by mutual written agreement of the parties. During the pendency of any such dispute, the Company will continue to pay you your full compensation in effect just prior to the time the Notice of Termination is given and until the dispute is resolved.
 
 
(i) In the event that during the thirty-six (36) month period following a change in control of the Company you fail to perform your duties as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness, you shall continue to receive your base salary at the rate then in effect and any benefits or awards under any Plans shall continue to accrue during such period, to the extent not inconsistent with such Plans, until your employment is terminated pursuant to and in accordance with paragraphs 4(i) and 4(vi) hereof. Thereafter, if your employment is terminated for Disability within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, your benefits shall be determined in accordance with the Plans, and you shall receive benefits under the Company's disability policies at the greater of the rate immediately prior to the change in control or your Date of Termination.
 
 
(ii) If, within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, your employment by the Company shall be terminated by the Company for Cause or by you (other than for Good Reason or Retirement), the Company shall pay you your base salary (subject to any deferral elections) through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect just prior to the time a Notice of Termination is given plus any bonus amounts which have become earned or payable, but which have not yet been paid to you. Thereupon the Company shall have no further obligations to you under this Agreement. Following your termination of employment, your accrued benefits under the Company's Plans shall be paid pursuant to the terms of such Plans.
 
(iii) If, within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, your employment by the Company shall be terminated on account of Disability, death or Retirement, the Company shall pay you your base salary (subject to any deferral elections) through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect just prior to the time a Notice of Termination is given plus any bonus amounts which have become earned or payable, but which have not yet been paid to you, and a portion of your annual bonus for the fiscal year in which your Date of Termination occurs in an amount at least equal to (A) the product of (1) your bonus amount (as defined below), and (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365), reduced by (B) any amounts paid from the Company's annual incentive plan for the fiscal year in which your Date of Termination occurs. Thereupon, the Company shall have no further obligations to you under this Agreement. Following your termination of employment, your accrued benefits under the Company's Plans shall be paid pursuant to the terms of such Plans;
provided
,
however
, that in the event of termination of employment on account of your death within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, life insurance benefits paid pursuant to the Company's welfare benefit plans shall be based on the terms of such plans in effect on the date of death, or if more favorable to you, the terms of such plans in effect immediately prior to the change in control.
 
(iv) If, within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, your employment by the Company shall be terminated (a) by the Company other than for Cause, Disability or Retirement or (b) by you for Good Reason, then the Company shall pay to you, no later than the sixtieth day following the Date of Termination, without regard to any contrary provisions of any Plan, a lump sum cash amount equal to the sum of the following amounts:
 
(A) your base salary (subject to any deferral elections) through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect just prior to the time a Notice of Termination is given (not taking into account any reductions constituting Good Reason) plus any bonus amounts which have become earned or payable, but which have not yet been paid to you, plus the value of your accrued but unused vacation days;
 
(B) a portion of your annual bonus for the fiscal year in which your Date of Termination occurs in an amount at least equal to (1) the product of (x) your bonus amount (as defined below), and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is three hundred sixty-five (365), reduced by (2) any amounts paid
 
from the Company's annual incentive plan for the fiscal year in which your Date of Termination occurs; and
 
(C) an amount equal to three times the sum of (1) your highest annual rate of base salary from the Company (or if applicable any Subsidiary or Parent (as defined in Section 16)) during the 12-month period immediately prior to your Date of Termination, and (2) your bonus amount.
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the term "base salary" shall include any amounts deducted with respect to you or for your account pursuant to Sections 125 and 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the "Code") or any other deferred compensation plan or program. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "bonus amount" means the average of the annual bonuses received under the Annual Bonus Plan or the Management Incentive Plan, as amended, or any successor or substitute plan (either such Plan hereinafter referred to as the "Bonus Plan")
for
the five full fiscal years immediately prior to your Date of Termination after excluding the highest and lowest of such full-year annual bonuses; provided, however, that, (1) if you have received at least three but fewer than five full-year bonuses under the Bonus Plan, the term "bonus amount" will be the average of your three most recent full-year annual bonuses that you received under the Bonus Plan without giving effect to the preceding exclusions, (2) if you have received fewer than three full-year bonuses under the Bonus Plan, the term "bonus amount" will be the average of any full-year annual bonuses you received under the Bonus Plan and, for this purpose only, 100% of your target bonus under the Bonus Plan in effect immediately prior to your Date of Termination will be treated as having been received by you in addition to any actual full-year bonuses, and (3) if any full-year bonus referred to above was determined using a formula based on a percentage of your business unit pre-tax income or other similar measure of business unit operating results including awards made under a pool arrangement where the pool was determined based on business unit pre-tax income or other similar measure, such bonus for purposes of this calculation shall not exceed the greater of 100% of your annual base salary in effect immediately prior to your Date of Termination or 100% of your annual base salary in effect
immediately prior to the change in control.
 
(v) If, within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, your employment by the Company shall be terminated (a) by the Company other than for Cause, Disability or Retirement or (b) by you for Good Reason, then the Company shall maintain in full force and effect, for the continued benefit of you and your spouse and dependents for a period terminating on the earliest of (a) eighteen (18) months after the Date of Termination, (b) the commencement date of equivalent benefits from a new employer or (c) your normal retirement date under the terms of the First Horizon National Corporation Pension Plan, as amended (or any successor or substitute plan or plans of the Company), the medical, dental and life insurance
benefits provided to you and your spouse and dependents in which you were entitled to participate immediately prior to the Date of Termination (or, if more favorable to you, the benefits provided under such plans, on a plan by plan basis, in which you were entitled to participate immediately prior to the change in control), provided that your continued participation is possible under the general terms and provisions of such plans (and any applicable funding media) and you continue to pay an amount equal to your contribution as in effect prior to the change in control or your Date of Termination, as applicable to the benefit provided under
 
such plans for such participation. If, at the end of eighteen (18) months after the Termination Date, you have not reached your normal retirement date and you have not previously received or are not then receiving equivalent benefits from a new employer, the Company shall arrange, at its sole cost and expense, to enable you to convert your and your spouse's and dependents' coverage under such plans to individual policies or programs upon the same terms as employees of the Company may apply for such conversions. Following your termination of employment, your accrued benefits under the Company's Plans shall be paid pursuant to the terms of such Plans.
 
(vi) If, within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, your employment by the Company shall be terminated (a) by the Company other than for Cause, Disability, death or Retirement or (b) by you for Good Reason, disability or Retirement, all stock options, shares of restricted stock or other stock-based awards, in each case granted following January 1, 2007 pursuant to any stock-based incentive plan of the Company, that are then outstanding and unvested in accordance with the terms and conditions of the grant or award shall become fully vested upon the Date of Termination (and, in the case of stock-options and similar awards, remain exercisable for the greater of (I) the period remaining for exercise provided by the terms of each applicable award or its related plan or (II) 90 days after the Date of Termination or, if earlier, until they would have expired but for your termination. If your employment by the Company shall be terminated on account of Retirement, your stock options and similar awards will remain exercisable for thirty-six (36) months after the Date of Termination or, if earlier, until they would have expired but for your termination).
 
(vii) Except as specifically provided in paragraph (v) above, the amount of any payment provided for in this Section 5 shall not be reduced, offset or subject to recovery by the Company by reason of any compensation earned by you as the result of employment by another employer after the Date of Termination, or otherwise.
 
(viii) If, within thirty-six (36) months after a change in control of the Company, your employment by the Company shall be terminated (a) by the Company other than for Cause, Disability or Retirement or (b) by you for Good Reason, then the Company shall provide you with reasonable outplacement services for the period through the last day of the second calendar year following the calendar year during which your termination of employment occurred.
 
(ix) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event it shall be determined that any payment, award, benefit or distribution (or any acceleration of any payment, award, benefit or distribution) by the Company (or any of its Affiliates) or any entity which effectuates a change in control (or any of its affiliated entities) to you or for your benefit (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise) (the "Payments") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, (such excise tax is referred to as the "Excise Tax"), but that the Payments would not be subject to the Excise Tax if the Payments were reduced by an amount that is less than the greater of (A) 5% of the portion of the Payments that would be treated as "parachute payments" under Section 280G of the Code and (B) $50,000, then the amounts payable to you under this Agreement shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the maximum amount that could be paid to you without giving rise to the Excise Tax (the "Safe Harbor Cap"). No gross-up payment shall be made to you. The reduction of the amounts payable
 
hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by reducing first the payments under Section 5(iv)(C), unless an alternative method of reduction is elected by you. For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under this Agreement (and no other Payments) shall be reduced. If the reduction of the amounts payable hereunder would not result in a reduction of the Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, no amounts payable under this Agreement shall be reduced pursuant to this provision.
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 5(ix), all determinations required to be made under this Section 5, including whether and when a reduction to the Safe Harbor Cap
is required, the amount of such reduction to the Safe Harbor Cap and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by the public accounting firm that is retained by the Company as of the date immediately prior to the change in control (the "Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and you within fifteen (15) business days of the receipt of notice from the Company or you that there has been a Payment, or such earlier time as is requested by the Company (collectively, the "Determination"). In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the change in control, the Company shall appoint another nationally recognized public accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company and the Company shall enter into any agreement requested by the Accounting Firm in connection with the performance of the services hereunder. If the Accounting Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by you, it shall furnish you with a written opinion to such effect, and to the effect that failure to report the Excise Tax, if any, on your applicable federal income tax return will not result in the imposition of a negligence or similar penalty. The Determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and you.
 
You shall cooperate, to the extent your expenses are reimbursed by the Company, with any reasonable requests by the Company in connection with any contests or disputes with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the Excise Tax.
 
(x) To the extent you would otherwise be entitled to any payment during the six months beginning on termination of your employment that would be subject to the additional tax under Section 409A, (i) the payment will not be made to you and instead will be made to a trust in compliance with Revenue Procedure 92-64 (the "Rabbi Trust") and (ii) the payment, together with earnings on it, will be paid to you on the earlier of the six-month anniversary of your date of termination or your death or disability if you are a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A") and as determined pursuant to procedures established by the Company). Similarly, to the extent you would otherwise be entitled to any benefit (other than a payment) during the six months beginning on termination of your employment that would be subject to the Section 409A additional tax, the benefit will be delayed and will begin being provided (together, if applicable, with an adjustment to compensate you for the delay) on the earlier of the six-month anniversary of your date of termination or your death or disability (within the meaning of Section 409A) if you are a specified employee.
 
 
 
The Company will bear all costs related to the establishment and operation of the Rabbi Trust. It is understood that the Rabbi Trust may also be used for similar arrangements with other executives of the Company.
 
 
(i) During your employment with the Company, and for a one year period after your employment terminates for any reason, your shall not, in any manner, directly or indirectly (without the prior written consent of the Company) Solicit anyone who is then an employee of the Company (or who was an employee of the Company within the prior 12 months) to resign from the Company or to apply for or accept employment with any other business or enterprise. For this purpose, "Solicit" means any direct or indirect communication of any kind, regardless of who initiates it, that in any way invites, advises, encourages or requests any person to take or refrain from taking any action.
 
(ii)
During the term of this Agreement and following termination of your employment for any reason, you shall not, in any manner, directly or indirectly make or publish any statement (orally or in writing) that would libel, slander, disparage, denigrate, ridicule or criticize the Company, any of its affiliates or any of their employees, officers or directors.
 
(iii) You agree that you will cooperate (i) with the Company in the defense of any legal claim involving any matter that arose during your employment with the Company, and (ii) with all government authorities on matters pertaining to any investigation, litigation or administrative proceeding concerning the Company. The Company will reimburse you for any reasonable travel and out of pocket expenses incurred by you in providing such cooperation.
 
 
(i) The Company will seek, by written request at least five (5) business days prior to the time a Person becomes a Successor (as hereinafter defined), to have such Person, by agreement in form and substance satisfactory to you, assent to the fulfillment of the Company's obligations under this Agreement. Failure of such Person to furnish such assent by the later of (A) three (3) business days prior to the time such Person becomes a Successor or (B) two (2) business days after such Person receives a written request to so assent shall constitute Good Reason for termination by you of your employment if a change in control of the Company occurs or has occurred. For purposes of this Agreement, "Successor" shall mean any Person that succeeds to, or has the practical ability to control (either immediately or with the passage of time), the Company's business directly, by merger or consolidation, or indirectly, by purchase of the Company's voting securities or otherwise.
 
(ii) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by your personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If you should die following your termination of employment while any amount would still be payable to you hereunder if you had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or other designee or, if there be no such designee, to your estate.
 
 
(iii) For purposes of this Agreement, the "Company" shall include any corporation or other entity which is the surviving or continuing entity in respect of any merger, consolidation or form of business combination in which the Company ceases to exist.
 
 
(i)   The Company shall reimburse you, on a current basis upon receipt of reasonable written evidence of such fees and expenses, for all legal fees and related expenses incurred by you in connection with this Agreement (including claims under the First Horizon National Corporation Directors and Executives Deferred Compensation Plan, or any successor plan or plans thereto) following a change in control of the Company, including, without limitation, (a)  all such fees and expenses, if any, incurred in contesting or disputing any termination of your employment or incurred by you in seeking advice with respect to the matters set forth in Section 5(ix) hereof or (b) your seeking to obtain or enforce any right or benefit provided by this Agreement, in each case, regardless of whether or not your claim is upheld by a court of competent jurisdiction; provided, however, you shall be required to repay any such amounts to the Company to the extent that a court issues a final and non-appealable order setting forth the determination that the position taken by you was frivolous or advanced by you in bad faith. The amount of reimbursement for fees and expenses for which you may be reimbursed during a calendar year shall not affect the amount of fees and expenses for which you are eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year. Your right to reimbursement for fees and expenses is not subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
 
(ii) You shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment the Company becomes obligated to make to you in connection with this Agreement, by seeking other employment or otherwise.
 
 
All payments to be made to you under this Agreement will be subject to required withholding of federal, state and local income and employment taxes.
 
 
The respective obligations of, and benefits afforded to, the Company and you as provided in Sections 5,
7
(ii), 8, 9, 14 and 15 of this Agreement shall survive termination of this Agreement.
 
 
(i) For the purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid and addressed, in the case of the Company, to the address set forth on the first page of this Agreement or, in the case of the undersigned employee, to the address set forth below his
 
signature, provided that all notices to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company, with a copy to the Secretary of the Company, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
 
(ii) A written notice of your Date of Termination by the Company or you, as the case may be, to the other, shall (i) indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of your employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) specify the termination date (which date shall be not less than fifteen (15) (thirty (30), if termination is by the Company for Disability) nor more than sixty (60) days after the giving of such notice). The failure by you or the Company to set forth in such notice any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right you or the Company have hereunder or preclude you or the Company from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing your or the Company's rights hereunder.
 
 
 
No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such modification, waiver or discharge is agreed to in a writing signed by you and, on behalf of the Company, by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer or President of the Company. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or of compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time. No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement. The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Tennessee.
 
 
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
 
 
You agree that subsequent to your period of employment with the Company, you will not at any time communicate or disclose to any unauthorized person, without the written consent of the Company, any proprietary processes of the Company or any Affiliate or other confidential information concerning their business, affairs, products, suppliers or customers which, if disclosed, would have a material adverse effect upon the business or operations of the Company and its Affiliates, taken as a whole; it being understood, however, that the obligations under this Section 14 shall not apply to the extent that the aforesaid matters (a) are disclosed in
 
circumstances where you are legally required to do so or (b) become generally known to and available for use by the public otherwise than by your wrongful act or omission.
 
 
To the extent that any provision of any other agreement between the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and you shall limit, qualify or be inconsistent with any provision of this Agreement, then for purposes of this Agreement, while the same shall remain in force, the provision of this Agreement shall control and such provision of such other agreement shall be deemed to have been superseded, and to be of no force or effect, as if such other agreement had been formally amended to the extent necessary to accomplish such purpose. Moreover, the benefits provided under this Agreement shall offset any and all benefits provided under any severance plan, program or similar arrangement (including any severance provisions of any employment agreement) of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
The Company will not take any action that would expose any payment or benefit to you under this Agreement or under any plan, arrangement or other agreement to the additional tax of Section 409A,
unless
(i) the Company is obligated to take the action under an agreement, plan or arrangement to which you are a party, (ii) you request the action, (iii) the Company advises you in writing that the action may result in the imposition of the additional tax
and
(iv) you subsequently request the action in a writing that acknowledges you will be responsible for any effect of the action under Section 409A. The Company will hold you harmless for any action it may take in violation of this paragraph.
 
It is our intention that the benefits and rights to which you could become entitled in connection with termination of employment covered under this Agreement comply with Section 409A. If you or the Company believes, at any time, that any of such benefit or right does not comply, it will promptly advise the other and will negotiate reasonably and in good faith to amend the terms of such arrangement such that it complies (with the most limited possible economic effect on you and on the Company).
 
 
Employment with the Company for purposes of this Agreement shall include employment with any of its Subsidiaries or with any entity which directly or indirectly beneficially owns more than 50% of the voting securities of the Company ("Parent").
 
 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument.
 
 
 
If this letter correctly sets forth our agreement on the subject matter hereof, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copy of this letter which will then constitute our agreement on this subject.
 
Sincerely,
 
 
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By _______________________________________
 
 
 
 
 
__
 
(insert full name)
 
Home Address:
 
 
 
 
 


