FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20090930160935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Horizon National Corporation (FHN) is announcing today that a definitive agreement was reached with Point Capital Partners LLC on September 29, 2009, for the sale of FTN Equity Capital Markets Corp., the institutional equity research division of FTN Financial Group and an operating subsidiary of First Tennessee Bank, N.A.  While the sale is expected to close in fourth quarter 2009 subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions, FHN will incur a non-cash, pre-tax, charge of approximately $14 million related to goodwill impairment (approximately $9 million net of taxes) in third quarter 2009 in connection with this agreement.  Although cash expenditures may be incurred in conjunction with closing this contract, no cash expenditures are expected to result directly from the goodwill impairment.  Cash expenditures related to closing are not expected to be significant.
This report, including its exhibit, contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties.  A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information.  Those factors include general economic and financial market conditions, competition, customer and investor responses to these conditions, ability to execute business plans, geopolitical developments, natural disasters, and items already mentioned in this report, as well as accounting estimates and other factors described in FHNs recent filings with the SEC. FHN disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements included herein or therein to reflect future events or developments.
Furnished as Exhibit 99 is a copy of the Companys press release to be issued September 30, 2009.
(d)       Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, is not to be considered filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Companys previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
First Horizon National Corporation
(Registrant)
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Sept. 30, 2009  First Tennessee Bank N.A., principal subsidiary of First Horizon National Corp. (NYSE:FHN), announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its institutional equity research business,  FTN Equity Capital Markets Corp., part of the FTN Financial Group, to Point Capital Partners LLC. Subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions, the sale should close by the end of the year.
Over the past 18 months we have refocused on our highly successful FTN Financial and First Tennessee Bank businesses, and this sale further refines that focus, said Bryan Jordan, First Horizon CEO.  We appreciate the many contributions our institutional equity research employees have made to our organization and believe the business they have created will be a great addition to Point Capital.
About First Horizon
The approximately 6,000 employees of First Horizon National Corp. (NYSE: FHN) provide financial services through about 180 bank locations in and around Tennessee and 21 FTN Financial Group offices in the U.S. and abroad. First Tennessee has the leading combined market deposit share in the 17 Tennessee counties where it does business and one of the highest customer retention rates of any bank in the country.  FTN Financial is an industry leader in fixed income sales, trading and strategies for institutional clients in the U.S. and abroad. FHN has been recognized as one of the nations best employers by AARP and Working Mother magazines.  More information can be found at .
www.fhnc.com
FHN-G
Contact First Horizon:
Dave Miller, Investor Relations, (901) 523-4162
Aarti Bowman, Investor Relations, (901) 523-4017
Anthony Hicks, Media Relations, (901) 523-4726


