FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20090424102658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 20, 2009
 
First Horizon National Corporation
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
_____________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Restatement of Charter
 
On April 22, 2009, the Company filed the Restated Charter of First Horizon National Corporation ("Charter") with the Secretary of State of Tennessee. This filing merely restated the Charter; it included all prior amendments in a single document. No new or additional amendment of the Charter was made. The restatement of the Charter was approved by the Company's Board of Directors on April 20, 2009. The restatement of the Charter was effective immediately upon filing.
 
Amendment of Bylaws
 
On April 20, 2009, the Company's Board of Directors amended Sections 3.4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.8 through 4.21, 4.23, 4.24, 7.1, 8.2, 9.2, and 10.6 of the Company's Bylaws. Sections 4.8 and 4.12 were deleted and replaced by new Sections 3.14 and 3.15, and all Sections in Article FOUR following 4.7 were re-numbered. The amendments were effective immediately.
 
The amendments made the positions of Chairman of the Board and Vice-Chairman of the Board non-officer positions. Accordingly, any person who is the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman will not be an officer of the Company, or have the duties or authority of an officer, by virtue of those roles. Previously, those positions were officer positions.
 
Certain of the amendments supplement the changes described above. The amendment to Section 3.4 clarifies that the Chairman will not be compensated as a non-employee director if he or she at the same time is serving as the Company's Chief Executive Officer. New Sections 3.14 and 3.15 specify certain duties of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman and authorize the Board to assign duties. The amendment to Section 7.1 provides that the Company's current Chairman of the Board, Mr. Michael D. Rose, is to be treated as a non-employee director for purposes of the retirement provisions of that Section, and authorizes the Board to make exceptions to the retirement provisions whenever a person is or was both an officer and a director.
 
 
 
 
Chairman of the Board Transition to Non-Executive Status
 
In connection with the Bylaw amendment mentioned in Item 5.03, the Company's Chairman of the Board, Michael D. Rose, ceased to be an officer and employee of the Company on April 20, 2009. Mr. Rose continues to be a director and Chairman of the Board.
 
Mr. Rose no longer will be paid a salary or other benefits as an officer or employee, but instead will be compensated as a non-employee director. On April 20, 2009, the Board of Directors amended the compensation provisions of the Company's Director Policy. Among other things, provision has been made in that Policy for compensating the Chairman of the Board as a non-employee director. Specifically, the Chairman will receive a special retainer in addition to the ordinary one; and, he will receive ordinary meeting fees except that he will be paid no fees for meetings of committees other than the Credit Policy and Executive Committee. An excerpt from the Director Policy of those provisions relating to compensation matters, as amended, is filed herewith as exhibit 10.1.
 
Results from Annual Meeting of Shareholders
 
At the annual meeting of shareholders held on April 21, 2009, each vote item passed, receiving "For" votes in excess of 80% of the outstanding shares on the record date for the meeting. The vote items were the election of five directors (Mark A. Emkes, D. Bryan Jordan, R. Brad Martin, Vicki R. Palmer, and William B. Sansom), ratification of KPMG LLP as auditors for 2009, and approval of an advisory proposal on executive compensation.
 
 
 
 
       
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
All summaries and descriptions of documents, and of amendments thereto, set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the documents themselves, whether filed as an exhibit hereto or filed as an exhibit to a later report.
 
* * * * *
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
RESTATED CHARTER
OF
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 48-20-107 of the Tennessee Business Corporation Act, the undersigned Corporation adopts the following Restated Charter:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The address of the principal office of the Corporation in the State of Tennessee shall be: 165 Madison Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee 38103.
 
 
 
 
The purpose or purposes for which the Corporation is organized are, to the extent permitted by law:
 
(a)       To subscribe for, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and to receive, own, hold, sell, exchange, lease, mortgage, pledge, assign or otherwise dispose of, and otherwise deal in and with"securities"(as such term is herein defined) issued or created by, or other property (real or personal) of any person, corporation, association, firm, trust, organization or other entity whatsoever, including but not limited to this corporation and any national banking association, state-chartered bank, savings bank and trust company, wherever located or organized and whether public, private or municipal, of this state, or any district, territory, subdivision, municipality or department thereof, or any other state or any district, territory, subdivision, municipality or department thereof, or any country, nation or government, or any district, territory, subdivision, municipality or department thereof; to possess and exercise any and all rights, powers and privileges of ownership of such securities or other property, including without limitation the right to vote on such securities; and to issue or deliver in payment or exchange, in whole or in part, for any such securities or other property, its own stock, bonds, notes or other obligations, or to
 
make payment for any such securities or other property by any other lawful means; and to do any and all acts and things necessary or advisable for the preservation, protection, improvement or enhancement in value of any such securities or other property. The term"securities"as used in this Article 5 shall mean any and all shares, stocks, bonds, debentures, notes, mortgages, acceptances, evidences of indebtedness or obligations, certificates of interest or participation in any property or venture, scrip, interim receipts, voting trust certificates, instruments or interests commonly known as securities, and any and all certificates of interest or participation in, or of deposit of, any of the foregoing, or receipts for, guaranties of, or warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase any of the foregoing.
 
(b)
        
To promote, finance and assist, financially or otherwise, whether by loan, guaranty, subsidy or otherwise, any person, corporation, partnership, association, firm, trust, organization or other entity in which the Corporation shall have any interest; to guarantee the payment of dividends on any stock or the payment of the obligations issued or incurred by any such person, corporation, partnership, association, firm, trust, organization or other entity, to issue its own stock, bonds or other obligations in payment or exchange for any securities or other property acquired (pursuant to a merger, consolidation or otherwise) by any such person, corporation, partnership, association, firm, trust, organization or other entity; and to do any and all other acts and things for the enhancement, protection or preservation of any securities which are in any manner, directly or indirectly, owned, held or guaranteed by the Corporation.
 
(c)
        
To render assistance, service, counsel and advice to, and to act as representative in any capacity (whether managing, operating, financial, purchasing, selling, advertising or otherwise) of any person, corporation, partnership, association, firm, trust, organization or other entity, including without limitation those in which the Corporation shall have any interest.
 
(d)
        
To acquire by purchase, lease, exchange or otherwise, to own, hold, use, manage, develop, improve and to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange and otherwise deal in, real estate and any interest or right therein and personal property of every class and description, either for is own account or for the account of others, to erect, construct, rebuild, repair, manage and control, lease, buy and sell, any and all kinds of and interest in real estate and personal property; and to engage generally in the business of operating and leasing real estate and personal property of every character and description.
 
(e)
        
To buy, sell, produce, manufacture and dispose of all kinds of goods, documents, instruments, general intangibles, chattel paper, accounts, contract rights, wares, foods, potables, merchandise, manufactures, commodities, furniture, machinery, tools, supplies and products of any kind, character or description whatsoever, and generally to engage in any mercantile, manufacturing or commercial business of any kind or character whatsoever throughout the world, and to do all things incidental to any such business or businesses.
 
 
 
(f)
         
To enter into any lawful arrangements for sharing profits, union of interest, reciprocal concession or cooperation, with any corporation, association, partnership, syndicate, entity, person or governmental, municipal or public authority, domestic or foreign in the carrying on of any business which the Corporation is authorized to carry on or any business or transaction deemed necessary, convenient or incidental to carrying out any of the purposes of the Corporation.
 
(g)
        
To issue bonds, debentures, convertible debentures, notes, commercial paper, or other obligations of this Corporation, from time to time for any of the objects or purposes of the Corporation and to secure the same by mortgage, pledge, deed of trust or otherwise.
 
(h)
        
To guarantee obligations of any other entity and to secure such guaranties by mortgage, pledge or otherwise by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors.
 
(i)
          
To indemnify the officers and directors during their term of office or thereafter for actions arising during their term of office, either directly or through the purchase of insurance, for expenditures as parties to suits by or in the right of the Corporation or other than by or in the right of the Corporation to the extent permitted by the statutes of Tennessee.
 
(j)
          
Without in any way limiting any of the objects or purposes or powers, whether primary or secondary of the Corporation, it is hereby expressly declared and provided that the Corporation shall have power to do all acts or things necessary, incidental or convenient to do, or calculated, directly or indirectly, to promote the interest of the Corporation, or enhance the value or render profitable any of its property or rights; and in carrying on its business or businesses, or for the purpose of obtaining or furthering any of its objects, to do any and all things and exercise any and all powers, rights and privileges which a corporation for profit may now or hereafter be permitted to do or to exercise under the laws of the State of Tennessee; and to do any and all of the acts and things herein set forth to the same extent as natural persons could do, and in any part of the world, as principal, factor, agent, contractor, trustee or otherwise, either alone or in syndicates, or otherwise in conjunction with any person, entity, syndicate, partnership, association or corporation, governmental or public bodies or authorities of any kind, domestic or foreign; to establish and maintain offices and agencies and to exercise all or any of its corporate powers and rights throughout the world.
 
(k)
        
To engage, in addition to the foregoing, in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the Tennessee General Corporation Act.
 
(l)
          
It is the intention that the objects, purposes and powers specified in the fifth paragraph hereof shall, except where otherwise specified in said paragraph, be no-wise limited or restricted by reference to or inference from the terms of any other clause or paragraph in this Charter, but that the objects, purposes and powers specified in the fifth paragraph and in each of the clauses or paragraphs of this Charter shall be regarded as independent objects, purposes and powers.
 
 
The foregoing clauses shall be construed both as purposes and powers, and it is hereby expressly provided that the foregoing enumeration of specific powers shall not be held to limit or restrict in any manner the powers of this Corporation.
 
 
The maximum number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is as follows:
 
(a)
        
Four Hundred Million (400,000,000) shares of common stock of a par value of $0.625 each; and
 
 
 
The Corporation will not commence business until consideration of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) has been received for the issuance of shares.
 
 
No shareholder of the Corporation shall because of his ownership of stock have a preemptive or other right to purchase, subscribe for or take any part of any stock or any part of the notes, debentures, bonds or other securities convertible into or carrying options or warrants to purchase stock of the Corporation issued, optioned or sold by it after its incorporation. Any part of the capital stock and any part of the notes, debentures, bonds or other securities convertible into or carrying options or warrants to purchase stock of the Corporation authorized by this Restated Charter or by any amendment duly filed, may at any time be issued, optioned for sale and sold or disposed of by the Corporation pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors to such persons and upon such terms as may to such Board seem proper without first offering such stock or securities or any part thereof to existing shareholders.
 
 
The entire voting power of the Corporation shall be vested in the common stock; provided, however, that the Board of Directors is authorized by this Charter to issue, from time to time, serial preferred stock of the Corporation in one or more series each of which constitutes a separate class, and prior to issuance to fix and determine the distinguishing characteristics and rights, privileges and immunities of each such series. Such characteristics and rights, privileges and immunities may include, but are not limited to, the voting rights of such serial preferred stock, and such voting rights of such serial preferred stock may, if so determined by the Board of Directors prior to the issuance of such serial preferred stock, give to the holders of such serial preferred stock voting rights equal to, greater than or less than those of the holders of the common stock.
 
 
 
 
The shares of any preferred class may be divided into and issued in series. If the shares of any such class are to be issued in series, then each series shall be so designated to distinguish the series thereof from all the shares of all other series and classes. All shares of the same series shall be identical. Any or all of the series of any class may vary in the relative rights and preferences as between the different series to the extent permitted by the statutes of Tennessee. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to divide any or all such classes into series and, within the limitation of the statutes of the State of Tennessee and particularly Sections 48-502 and 48-503, fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of the shares of any series so established.
 
The Board of Directors is authorized to issue the preferred stock, without par value, in one or more series, from time to time with such voting powers, full or limited, or without voting powers, and with such designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as may be provided in a resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors. The authority of the Board of Directors shall include, but not be limited to, the determination or fixing of the following with respect to shares of such class or any series thereof: (1) the number of shares and designation; (2) the dividend rate and whether dividends are to be cumulative; (3) whether shares are to be redeemable and, if so, the terms and amount of any sinking fund for the purchase or redemption of such shares; (4) whether shares shall be convertible and, if so, the terms and provisions applying; (5) what voting rights are to apply, if any; and (6) what restrictions are to apply, if any, on the issue or re-issue of any additional preferred stock.
 
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series CPP
 
A.
         
Designation and Number of Shares
. There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the "Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series CPP" (the "
Designated Preferred Stock"
). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 866,540.
 
B.
         
Standard Provisions
. The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Article 10 to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full at this place.
 
C.
         
Definitions
. The following terms are used in this Article 10 (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below:
 
(a)
           
"
Common Stock
" means the common stock, par value $0.625 per share, of the Corporation.
 
 
(b)
           
"
Dividend Payment Date
" means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
 
(c)
           
"
Junior Stock
" means the Common Stock, and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
 
(d)
           
"
Liquidation Amount
" means $1,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.
 
 
(f)
            
"
Parity Stock
" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively).
 
 
D.
         
Certain Voting Matters
. Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent.
 
 
(a)
        
The Corporation shall have the right to purchase, take, receive or otherwise acquire, hold, own, pledge, transfer or otherwise dispose of its own shares; but purchases of its own shares, whether direct or indirect, shall be made only to the extent of unreserved and unrestricted earned or capital surplus available therefor.
 
(b)
        
Other provisions: Management. The Corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors, which shall exercise all powers conferred under the laws of the State of Tennessee including without limitation the power:
 
(1)
        
To hold meetings, to have one or more offices, and to keep the books of the corporation, except as otherwise expressly provided by law, at such places, whether within or without the State of Tennessee, as may from time to time be designated by the Board.
 
(2)
        
To make, alter and repeal bylaws of the corporation, subject to the reserved power of the shareholders to make, alter and repeal bylaws.
 
 
 
(3)
        
To approve the issuance or sale of any of its authorized but unissued shares of any class, bonds or other securities and rights or options entitling the holders thereof to purchase from the corporation shares of any class or classes, to approve the purchase or other acquisition of or the reissuance, sale or other disposition of treasury shares; to fix the consideration to be received for such shares of any class, bonds or other securities, rights or options and to cause to be issued any such shares of any class, bonds or other securities, rights or options.
 
(4)
        
To use or apply any funds of the corporation lawfully available therefor for the purchase or acquisition of shares of the capital stock or bonds or other securities of the corporation, in the market or otherwise, at such price as may be fixed by the Board, and to such extent and in such manner and for such purposes and upon such terms as the Board may deem expedient and as may be permitted by law, and to sell, exchange, transfer, reissue or cancel such shares of the capital stock of the corporation upon such terms and for such consideration as it may deem proper.
 
(5)
        
To determine whether and to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and regulations the accounts and books of the corporation, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the shareholders, and no shareholder shall have any right to inspect any account, record, book or document of the corporation, except as conferred by the laws of the State of Tennessee or as authorized by the Board.
 
(6)
        
To remove any director for cause as defined by the laws of the State of Tennessee by a vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors.
 
(7)
        
To fill any newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancies occurring in the Board for any reason, (including removal of directors without cause by the shareholders or for cause by the Board of Directors or the shareholders.)
 
(8)
        
To designate an Executive Committee consisting of two or more directors and such other committees consisting of two or more persons, who may or may not be directors, and to delegate to such Executive Committee and other committees all such authority of the Board that it deems desirable within the limits prescribed by the statutes of the State of Tennessee.
 
(9)
        
To designate the officer or officers of the corporation who shall vote the shares of capital stock held by the corporation in other corporations and to authorize the execution of any proxy that may be necessary in connection therewith.
 
(10)
      
To take any action required or permitted of the Board without a meeting on written consent, setting forth the action so taken, sighed by all directors entitled to vote thereon.
 
 
 
 
(a)
        
The number of directors of the Corporation which shall constitute the entire Board of Directors shall be fixed from time to time in the Bylaws of the Corporation. Any such determination shall continue in effect unless and until changed, but no such changes shall affect the term of any director then in office. At the annual meeting of shareholders that is held in calendar year 2008, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders that is held in calendar year 2011; provided, however, that any director whose term expires at the 2008 annual meeting solely due to the operation of Section 48-18-105(d) of the Tennessee Business Corporation Act shall be elected for the remainder of the term of the class of directors to which he or she has been assigned. Commencing at the annual meeting of shareholders that is held in calendar year 2009, directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year, except that any director in office at the 2009 annual meeting whose term expires at the annual meeting of shareholders held in calendar year 2010 or 2011 shall continue to hold office until the end of the term for which such director was elected. In all cases, directors shall hold office until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified.
 
(b)
        
Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or any other cause (except removal from office) shall be filled only by the Board of Directors, provided that a quorum is then in office and present, or only by a majority of the directors then in office, if less than a quorum is then in office, or by the sole remaining director. Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from removal from office may be filled by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock or, if the shareholders do not so fill such a vacancy, by a majority of the directors then in office. Directors of the Corporation may be removed by the shareholders only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock.
 
(c)
        
The Bylaws or any Bylaw of the Corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed only by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the directors then in office at any regular or special meeting of directors, or by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock at any annual meeting or any special meeting called for that purpose. Any provision of the Charter which is inconsistent with any provision of the Bylaws of the Corporation may be adopted only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock at any annual meeting or any special meeting called for that purpose.
 
(d)
        
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Charter or the Bylaws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage or separate class vote may be specified by law, this Charter, the Bylaws of the Corporation or otherwise), the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all
 
outstanding voting stock shall be required to adopt any provisions inconsistent with, or to amend or repeal, this Article 12.
 
(e)
        
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of preferred stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or by series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of this Charter applicable thereto.
 
 
No director shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, or (iii) under Section 48-18-304, or any successor provision thereto, of the Tennessee Business Corporation Act.
 
 
The Corporation's registered office is 165 Madison Avenue, Memphis, Shelby County, Tennessee 38103, and its registered agent at that office is Clyde A. Billings, Jr.
 
DATED: April
20
, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX A
 
STANDARD PROVISIONS
 
Section 1.
      
General Matters
. Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation.
 
Section 2.
      
Standard Definitions
. As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock:
 
(a)
  
"
Applicable Dividend Rate
" means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum.
 
(b)
  
"
Appropriate Federal Banking Agency
" means the "appropriate Federal banking agency" with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision.
 
(c)
  
"
Business Combination
" means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders.
 
(d)
  
"
Business Day
" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close.
 
(e)
  
"
Bylaws
" means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
 
(f)
   
"
Certificate of Designations
" means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time.
 
(g)
  
"
Charter
" means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document.
 
 
 
 
(k)
  
"
Original Issue Date
" means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.
 
 
 
 
(m)
"
Preferred Stock
" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock.
 
(n)
  
"
Qualified Equity Offering
" means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008).
 
 
(p)
  
"
Standard Provisions
" mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock.
 
 
(r)
   
"
Voting Parity Stock
" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
 
 
(a)
  
Rate
. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (
i.e.
, no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a "
Dividend Period
", provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date.
 
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The
 
amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
 
Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "
Dividend Record
Date
"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
 
Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations).
 
(b)
  
Priority of Dividends
. So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,
provided
that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock. "
Share Dilution Amount
" means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and
 
as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction.
 
When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared
pro rata
so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date.
 
Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
 
 
(a)
  
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the "
Liquidation
Preference
").
 
(b)
  
Partial Payment
. If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with
 
respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled.
 
(c)
  
Residual Distributions
. If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
 
(d)
  
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
. For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
 
 
(a)
  
Optional Redemption
. Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;
provided
that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the "Minimum Amount" as defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the "
Successor Preferred Stock
") in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by
 
the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor).
 
The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above.
 
(b)
  
No Sinking Fund
. The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock.
 
(c)
  
Notice of Redemption
. Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
 
(d)
  
Partial Redemption
. In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either
pro rata
or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
 
(e)
  
Effectiveness of Redemption
. If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the
pro rata
benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on
 
all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
 
(f)
   
Status of Redeemed Shares
. Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (
provided
that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock).
 
Section 6.
      
Conversion
. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
 
 
(a)
  
General
. The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
 
(b)
  
Preferred Stock Directors
. Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the "
Preferred Directors
" and each a "
Preferred Director
") to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;
provided
that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as
 
aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
 
(c)
  
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
. So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
 
(i)
           
Authorization of Senior Stock
. Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
 
(ii)
          
Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock
. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or
 
(iii)
        
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
. Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
 
provided
,
however
, that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock.
 
 
(d)
  
Changes after Provision for Redemption
. No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above.
 
(e)
  
Procedures for Voting and Consents
. The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time.
 
Section 8.
      
Record Holders
. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
Section 9.
      
Notices
. All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility.
 
Section 10.
    
No Preemptive Rights
. No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
 
Section 11.
    
Replacement Certificates
. The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
 
Section 12.
    
Other Rights
. The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law.
 
 
 

                                             
BYLAWS OF
FIRST HORIZON NATIONAL CORPORATION
(As Amended and Restated April 20 , 2009)
 
ARTICLE ONE
OFFICES
 
1.1
          
Principal Office.
The principal office of First Horizon National Corporation (the "Corporation") shall be 165 Madison Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee.
 
1.2
          
Other Offices.
The Corporation may have offices at such other places, either within or without the State of Tennessee, as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
 
1.3
          
Registered Office.
The registered office of the Corporation required to be maintained in the State of Tennessee shall be the same as its principal office and may be changed from time to time as provided by law.
 
ARTICLE TWO
SHAREHOLDERS
 
2.1
          
Place of Meetings.
Meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation may be held either in the State of Tennessee or elsewhere; but in the absence of notice to the contrary, shareholders' meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Corporation in Memphis, Tennessee.
 
2.2
          
Quorum and Adjournments.
The holders of a majority of the shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall be requisite, and shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the shareholders, for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by law, the Restated Charter of the Corporation, as amended from time to time (the "Charter"), or these Bylaws. In the event a quorum is not obtained at the meeting, the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat, present in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time and, whether or not a quorum is obtained at the meeting, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in either case without notice, except as otherwise provided by law, other than announcement at the meeting. At such adjourned meeting at which the requisite amount of voting shares shall be represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
 
2.3
          
Notice of Meetings.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, written notice of the annual and each special meeting stating the date, time and place of the meeting shall be mailed, postage prepaid, or otherwise delivered to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat at such address as appears on the records of shareholders of the Corporation, at least ten (10) days, but not more than two (2) months, prior to the meeting date. In addition, notice of any special meeting shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the person or persons calling the meeting. In the event of an adjournment of a meeting to a date more than four months after the date fixed for the original meeting or the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, a new notice of the adjourned meeting must be given to shareholders as of the new record date. Any previously scheduled meeting may be postponed, and any special meeting may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date scheduled for such meeting.
 
                 
2.4
          
Annual Meetings.
The annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held each year on the third Tuesday in April, or if that day is a legal holiday, on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday, at 10:00 a.m. Memphis time or on such other date and/or at such other time as the Board of Directors may fix by resolution by vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. At the meeting, the shareholders shall elect by ballot, by plurality vote, directors to succeed the directors whose terms expire at the meeting and may transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
 
2.5
               
Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the shareholders for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute, may be called by Chairman of the Board and shall be called by the Chairman of the
 
Board or the Secretary at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors. Only such business within the purpose or purposes described in the notice of the meeting may be conducted at the meeting.
 
2.6
  
Waiver of Notice.
Any shareholder may waive in writing notice of any meeting either before, at or after the meeting. Attendance by a shareholder in person or by proxy at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of objection to lack of notice or defective notice and a waiver of objection to consideration of a matter that was not described in the meeting notice unless the shareholder objects in the manner required by law.
 
2.7
  
Voting.
Unless otherwise required by the Charter, at each meeting of shareholders, each shareholder shall have one vote for each share of stock having voting power registered in the shareholder's name on the records of the Corporation on the record date for that meeting, and every shareholder having the right to vote shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy appointed by instrument in writing or any other method permitted by law.
 
2.8
  
Procedures for Bringing Business before Shareholder Meeting.
At an annual or special meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted, and only such proposals shall be acted upon, as shall have been properly brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders. To be properly brought before an annual or special meeting of shareholders, business must be (i) in the case of a special meeting called by the Chairman of the Board or at the request of the Board of Directors, specified in the notice of the special meeting (or any supplement thereto), or (ii) in the case of an annual meeting properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the annual or special meeting by a shareholder. For business to be properly brought before such a meeting of shareholders by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the date of the meeting; provided, however, that if fewer than 100 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholders to be timely must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (i) the day on which such notice of the date of such meeting was mailed or (ii) the day on which such public disclosure was made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before a meeting of shareholders (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (ii) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the shareholder proposing such business and any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such proposal, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such shareholder on the date of such shareholder's notice and by any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such proposal on the date of such shareholder's notice, and (iv) any material interest of the shareholder in such proposal. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting of shareholders except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.8. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the Chairman should so determine, the Chairman shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.
 
2.9
  
SEC Proxy Rules.
In addition to complying with the provisions of Section 2.8, a shareholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in Section 2.8. Nothing in Section 2.8 shall be deemed to affect any rights of shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. For such proposals to be acted upon at a meeting, however, compliance with the notice provisions of Section 2.8 is also required.
 
ARTICLE THREE
DIRECTORS
 
3.1
  
Powers of Directors.
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
3.2
  
Number and Qualifications.
The Board of Directors shall consist of twelve members through December 31, 2008; and beginning on January 1, 2009, the Board of Directors shall consist of eleven members. The Board of Directors has the power to change from time to time the number of directors specified in the preceding sentence. Any such change in the number of directors constituting the Corporation's Board Directors must be made exclusively by means of an amendment to these Bylaws adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors then in office. Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation nor residents of the State of Tennessee.
 
3.3
  
Term of Office.
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Charter, the term of each director hereafter elected shall be from the time of his or her election and qualification until the annual meeting next following such election and until a successor shall have been duly elected and qualified; subject, however, to the right of the removal of any director as provided by law, by the Charter or by these Bylaws.
 
3.4
  
Compensation.
The directors shall be paid for their services on the Board of Directors and on any Committee thereof such compensation (which may include cash, shares of stock of the Corporation and options thereon) and benefits together with reasonable expenses, if any, at such times as may, from time to time, be determined by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors; provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and being compensated therefor; provided further that if the Chairman of the Board is at the same time serving as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, he or she will not be compensated as a non-employee director for his or her service as Chairman.
 
3.5
  
Committees.
The directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may designate an executive committee and other committees, consisting of two or more directors, and may delegate to such committee or committees all such authority of the Board of Directors that it deems desirable, including, without limitation, authority to appoint corporate officers, fix their salaries, and, to the extent such is not provided by law, the Charter or these Bylaws, to establish their authority and responsibility, except that no such committee or committees shall have and exercise the authority of the Board of Directors to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.6
  
Procedures for Director Nominations.
Except as provided in Section 3.7 with respect to vacancies on the Board of Directors, only persons nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.6 shall be eligible for election as directors. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a meeting of shareholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (ii) by any shareholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at such meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.6. Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the date of a meeting; provided, however, that if fewer than 100 days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so delivered or received not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the earlier of (i) the day on which such notice of the date of such meeting was mailed or (ii) the day on which such public disclosure was made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth (i) as to each
 
person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (c) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person on the date of such shareholder's notice and (d) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or, is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, without limitation, such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (ii) as to the shareholder giving the notice (a) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such shareholder and any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such nominees and (b) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such shareholder on the date of such shareholder's notice and by any other shareholders known by such shareholder to be supporting such nominees on the date of such shareholder's notice. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 3.6. The Chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if the Chairman should so determine, the Chairman shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
3.7
  
Vacancies; Removal from Office.
Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Charter, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or any other cause (except removal from office) shall be filled only by the Board of Directors, provided that a quorum is then in office and present, or only by a majority of the directors then in office, if less than a quorum is then in office or by the sole remaining director. Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from removal from office may be filled by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock or, if the shareholders do not so fill such a vacancy, by a majority of the directors then in office. Directors elected to fill a newly created directorship or other vacancy shall hold office for a term expiring at the next shareholders' meeting at which directors are elected and until such director's successor has been duly elected and qualified. A director of the Corporation may be removed by the shareholders only for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock.
 
3.8
  
Place of Meetings.
The directors may hold meetings of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof at the principal office of the Corporation in Memphis, Tennessee, or at such other place or places, either in the State of Tennessee or elsewhere, as the Board of Directors or the members of the committee, as applicable, may from time to time determine by resolution or by written consent or as may be specified in the notice of the meeting.
 
3.9
  
Quorum.
A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, without further notice, if the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned are fixed at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken and if the period of adjournment does not exceed thirty (30) days in any one (1) adjournment. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the vote of a greater number is required by law, the Charter, or these Bylaws.
 
3.10
Regular Meetings.
Following each annual meeting of shareholders, the newly elected directors, together with the incumbent directors whose terms do not expire at such meeting, shall meet for the purpose of organization, the appointment of officers and the transaction of other business, and, if a majority of the directors be present at such place, day and hour, no prior notice of such meeting shall be required to be given to the directors. The place, day and hour of such meeting may also be fixed by resolution or by written consent of the directors. In addition, the Board of Directors may approve an annual schedule for additional regular meetings of the Board of Directors and of committees thereof.
 
3.11
Special Meetings.
Special meetings of the directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President (or as to any committee of the Board of Directors, by the person or persons specified in the resolution of the Board of Directors establishing the committee) on two days' notice by mail or on one day's notice by telegram or cablegram, or on two hours' notice given personally or by telephone or facsimile transmission to each director (or member of the committee, as appropriate), and shall be called by the Chairman of the Board or Secretary in like manner on the written request of a majority of directors then in office.
 
The notice shall state the day and hour of the meeting and the place where the meeting is to be held. Special meetings of the directors may be held at any time on written waiver of notice or by consent of all the directors, either of which may be given either before, at or after the meeting.
 
3.12
Action without a Meeting.
The directors may (whether acting in lieu of a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof) take action which they are required or permitted to take, without a meeting, on written consent setting forth the action so taken, signed by all of the directors entitled to vote thereon. If all the directors entitled to vote consent to taking such action without a meeting, the affirmative vote of the number of directors necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting is the act of the Board of Directors or committee, as appropriate.
 
3.13
Telephone Meetings.
Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee thereof by, or conduct a meeting through the use of, any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A director so participating is deemed to be present in person at such meeting.
 
3.14
Chairman of the Board.
The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors (except, with respect to meetings of the Board of Directors, as may be otherwise determined by the Board of Directors) and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the position and as may be assigned by the Board of Directors. If and at such times as the Board of Directors so determines, the Chairman of the Board may also serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
 
3.15
Vice Chairmen.
Vice Chairmen shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board.
 
 
ARTICLE FOUR
OFFICERS
 
4.1
  
Designated Officers.
The officers of the Corporation shall consist of such officers as are required by the Tennessee Business Corporation Act and such other officers, including officers identified in Sections 4.8 through 4.23 below, as the Board of Directors determines from time to time, along with such other officers and assistant officers as may be from time to time determined and appointed in accordance with the provisions of this Article Four. The title of any officer may include any additional descriptive designation determined to be appropriate. Any person may hold two or more offices, except that the President shall not also be the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary. The officers need not be directors, and officers need not be shareholders.
 
4.2
  
Appointment of Officers.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 4.2, the officers of the Corporation shall be appointed by the Board of Directors at the annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of shareholders. The Board of Directors hereby delegates to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors: (i) the power to create corporate offices; (ii) the power to define the authority and responsibility of such offices, except to the extent such authority or responsibility would not be consistent with the law or the Charter; and (iii) the power to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation except the offices of the Chief Executive Officer; President; Chief Operating Officer; Secretary; any office the incumbent in which is designated by the Board as an Executive Officer (as defined in Section 4.5 hereof); and, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Auditor. In addition, the Board of Directors hereby delegates (a) to the Chief Human Resources Officer the authority to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation of the level of Vice President and below at any time and (b) to the Chief Executive Officer the authority to appoint persons to any office of the Corporation of the level of Executive Vice President and below at any time; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may not delegate such authority with respect to those offices to which the Compensation Committee of the Board can not appoint persons pursuant to clause (iii) above. Notwithstanding the delegation of authority pursuant to this section 4.2 of the Bylaws, the Board of Directors retains the authority to appoint all
 
officers and such other officers and agents as it shall deem necessary, who shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
 
4.3
  
Term.
The officers of the Corporation shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year and until their successors are appointed and qualified, subject to the right of removal specified in Section 4.4 of these Bylaws. The designation of a specified term does not grant to any officer any contract rights.
 
4.4
  
Vacancies, Resignations and Removal.
If the office of any officer or officers becomes vacant for any reason, the vacancy may be filled by the Board of Directors or, if such officer was appointed by a committee or another officer, by such committee or such other officer. Any officer may resign at any time by delivering a written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Secretary, or that Executive Officer who is the Chief Human Resources Officer (as defined in Section 4.17) or to whom that Officer reports, or the designee of any of them, which shall be effective upon delivery unless it specifies a later date acceptable to the Corporation. Any Executive Officer (as defined in Section 4.5 below) and the Secretary shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. The Auditor shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee. Any other officer shall be subject to removal at any time with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, and in the event the officer was, or could have been, appointed by a committee or another officer, then by such other officer or by the affirmative vote of a majority of either such committee or the Board of Directors.
 
4.5
  
Executive Officers.
"Executive Officers" shall be those officers of the Corporation expressly designated from time to time in a resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors as being executive officers' for purposes of these Bylaws or for purposes of any rule or regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The fact that an officer's title contains the word "executive" and appears in a Board resolution shall not, by itself, constitute an executive officer designation as provided in this Section.
 
4.6
  
Compensation.
The Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, shall fix the compensation of Executive Officers of the Corporation. The compensation of officers who are not Executive Officers shall be fixed by the Board of Directors, by a committee thereof, or by management under such policies and procedures as shall be established by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
 
                
4.7
Delegation of Officer Duties.
In case of the absence of any officer of the Corporation, or for any reason that the Board of Directors (or, in addition, in the case of any officer appointed by a committee or another officer, such committee or such officer or any other committee or any other officer which could appoint such officer pursuant to Section 4.2 of these Bylaws) may deem sufficient, the Board of Directors (or committee or other officer, as applicable) may delegate, for the time being, the powers or duties, or any of them, of such officer to any other officer, or to any director.
 
4.8
  
Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors (except, with respect to meetings of the Board of Directors, as may be otherwise determined by the Board of Directors). The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for carrying out the orders of and the resolutions and policies adopted by the Board of Directors and shall have general management of the business of the Corporation and shall exercise general supervision over all of its affairs. In addition, the Chief Executive Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors. If and at such time as the Board of Directors so determines, the Chief Executive Officer may also serve as the President of the Corporation.
 
4.9
  
President.
The President, in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors (except, with respect to meetings of the Board of Directors, as may be otherwise determined by the Board of Directors). The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation unless the Board of Directors has appointed another person to such office, in which case the President shall be the Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation. The President shall
 
have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, unless the Board of Directors has appointed another person to the office of Chief Operating Officer, the President shall also have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein with respect to the Chief Operating Officer and as are normally incident to the office of Chief Operating Officer and as may be prescribed for the Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.10
Chief Operating Officer.
The Chief Operating Officer, if other than the President, shall have charge of the day-to-day operations of the Corporation and shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be provided for herein and as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, or the President.
 
 
4.11
Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer shall be the principal financial officer of the Corporation. The Chief Financial Officer is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.12
Chief Credit Officer.
The Chief Credit Officer shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.13
General Counsel.
The General Counsel is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.14
Chief Risk Officer.
The officer in charge of overall risk management, whatever his or her title ("Chief Risk Officer"), shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.15
Chief Human Resources Officer.
The officer in charge of human resources, whatever his or her title ("Chief Human Resources Officer"), shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
 
4.16
Business Segment Presidents and Business Segment Chief Operating Officers.
Each officer of the Corporation who is a President or a Chief Operating Officer of a substantial business line, division, segment, or group (as applicable, a "Business Segment President" or "Business Segment Chief Operating Officer") shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to his or her office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer. For this purpose, a business line, division, segment, or group is substantial if its President or Chief Operating Officer is an Executive Officer or if it is expressly identified as a "segment" or "business segment" of the Corporation for financial accounting purposes.
 
4.17
Senior Executive Vice Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice Presidents
.
Each Senior Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, and Vice President shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to his or her office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or, with respect to Vice Presidents only, the Chief Human Resources Officer.
 
4.18
Secretary.
The Secretary is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation. The Secretary shall attend all sessions of the Board of Directors and of the shareholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in books to be kept for that purpose. The Secretary shall give or cause to be given notice of all meetings of the
 
shareholders and of the Board of Directors, shall authenticate records of the Corporation, and shall perform such other duties as are incident to the office or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. In the absence or disability of the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary or such other officer or officers as may be authorized by the Board of Directors or Credit Policy & Executive Committee thereof shall perform all the duties and exercise all of the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer shall prescribe. In addition, from time to time officers holding the office of Limited Assistant Secretary may be appointed with such officer's power limited to the power to attest the signature of another officer. Such Limited Assistant Secretary will have no other power as an officer.
 
4.19
               
Treasurer.
The Treasurer shall have the custody of the funds and securities of the Corporation and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer, whenever they may require it, an account of all of his or her transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and at a regular meeting of the Board of Directors preceding the annual shareholders' meeting, a like report for the preceding year. The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept an account of stock registered and transferred in such manner and subject to such regulations as the Board of Directors may prescribe. The Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond, if required by the Board of Directors, in such a sum and in form and with security satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his or her death, resignation or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession, belonging to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer may from time to time prescribe or require. In the absence or disability of the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer shall perform all the duties and exercise all of the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, or the Chief Operating Officer shall prescribe.
 
4.20
Auditor.
The Auditor shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as are normally incident to the office and as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
 
4.21
Chief Accounting Officer
.
The Chief Accounting Officer shall be the principal accounting officer of the Corporation. The Chief Accounting Officer is authorized to sign any document filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any state securities commission on behalf of the Corporation and shall assist the management of the Corporation in setting the financial goals and policies of the Corporation, shall provide financial and statistical information to the shareholders and to the management of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President or the Chief Operating Officer.
 
4.22
Other Officers.
Officers holding such other offices as may be created pursuant to Sections 4.1 and 4.2 of these Bylaws shall have such authority and perform such duties and exercise such powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer or, with respect to officers of the level of Vice President and below, the Chief Human Resources Officer.
 
4.23
Officer Committees.
The directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may designate one or more committees, consisting of two or more officers, and may delegate to such committee or committees all such authority that the Board of Directors deems desirable that is permitted by law. Members of such committees may take action without a meeting and may participate in meetings to the same extent and in the same manner that directors may take action and may participate pursuant to Sections 3.12 and 3.13 of these Bylaws.
 
 
 
ARTICLE FIVE
SHARES OF STOCK
 
5.1
  
Certificates.
The certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation shall be numbered, shall be entered in the books or records of the Corporation as they are issued, and shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer and any one of the following: the President, the Treasurer, or the Secretary. Either or both of the signatures upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent, or registered by a registrar other than an officer or employee of the Corporation. Each certificate shall include the following upon the face thereof:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2
  
Shares Not Represented by Certificates.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.1 of these Bylaws, shares of any class of stock of the Corporation may be issued without certificates. The Corporation shall send to each shareholder to whom uncertificated shares have been issued or transferred at the appropriate time any written statement providing information about such shares, which is required by law.
 
5.3
  
Stock Transfers and Record Dates.
Transfers of shares of stock shall be made upon the books of the Corporation by the record owner or by an attorney, lawfully constituted in writing, and upon surrender of any certificate therefor. The Board of Directors may appoint suitable agents in Memphis, Tennessee, and elsewhere to facilitate transfers by shareholders under such regulations as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The transfer books may be closed by the Board of Directors for such period, not to exceed 40 days, as may be deemed advisable for dividend or other purposes, or in lieu of closing the books, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for determining shareholders entitled notice of and to vote at a meeting of shareholders, or entitled to payment of any dividend or other distribution. The record date for voting or taking other action as shareholders shall not be less than 10 days nor more than 70 days prior to the meeting date or action requiring such determination of shareholders. The record date for dividends and other distributions shall not be less than 10 days prior to the payment date of the dividend or other distribution. All certificates surrendered to the Corporation for transfer shall be canceled, and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for like number of shares shall have been surrendered and canceled, except that in case of a lost or destroyed certificate a new one may be issued on the terms prescribed by Section 5.5 of these Bylaws.
 
5.4
  
Record Owners.
The Corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof; and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as required by applicable law.
 
5.5
  
Lost, Destroyed, Stolen or Mutilated Certificates.
The agent for transfer of the Corporation's stock may issue new share certificates in place of certificates represented to have been lost, destroyed, stolen or mutilated upon receiving an indemnity satisfactory to the agent and the Secretary or Treasurer of the Corporation, without further action of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
ARTICLE SIX
INDEMNIFICATION
 
6.1
  
Indemnification of Officers When Wholly Successful.
If any current or former officer of the Corporation [including for purposes of this Article an individual who, while an officer, is or was serving another corporation or other enterprise (including an employee benefit plan and a political action committee, which serves the interests of the employees of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries) in any capacity at the request of the Corporation and unless the context requires otherwise the estate or personal representative of such officer] is wholly successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative and whether formal or informal ("Proceeding"), to which the officer was a party because he or she is or was an officer of the Corporation, the officer shall be indemnified by the Corporation against all reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred in connection with such Proceeding, or any appeal therein. As used in this Article, "Proceeding" shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, and whether formal or informal, arising out of or alleging any acts, errors, or omissions by the officer in the rendering or failure to render professional services, including legal and accounting services, for or at the request of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; provided such professional services are within the reasonably anticipated scope of the officer's duties. Additionally, as used in this Article, "Proceeding" shall include, but is not limited to, any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or proceeding arising out of or alleging negligence on the part of the Officer.
 
6.2
  
Indemnification of Officers When Not Wholly Successful.
If any current or former officer of the Corporation has not been wholly successful on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of a Proceeding, to which the officer was or was threatened to be made a party because he or she was or is an officer, the officer shall be indemnified by the Corporation against any judgment, settlement, penalty, fine (including any excise tax assessed with respect to an employee benefit plan), or other liability and any reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred as a result of such Proceeding, or any appeal therein, if authorized in the specific case after a determination has been made that indemnification is permissible because the following standard of conduct has been met:
 
 
 
 
provided, however, the Corporation may not indemnify an officer in connection with a Proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation in which the officer was adjudged liable to the Corporation or in connection with any other proceeding charging improper benefit to the officer, whether or not involving action in his or her official capacity, in which the officer was adjudged liable on the basis that personal benefit was improperly received by the officer.
 
6.3
  
Procedures for Indemnification Determinations.
The determination required by Section 6.2 herein shall be made as follows:
 
 
 
 
by majority vote of the full Board of Directors (in which selection directors who are parties may participate); or, if a determination pursuant to subsections (a), (b), or (c) of this Section 6.3 cannot be obtained, then
 
 
6.4
  
Serving at the Request of the Corporation.
An officer of the Corporation shall be deemed to be serving another corporation or other enterprise or employee benefit plan or political action committee at the request of the Corporation only if such request is reflected in the records of the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors for the purpose of making such requests. Approval by the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, may occur before or after commencement of such service by the officer.
 
6.5
  
Advancement of Expenses.
The Corporation shall pay for or reimburse reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, incurred by an officer who is a party to a Proceeding in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding if:
 
 
 
 
6.6
 
Undertaking Required for Expenses.
The undertaking required by Section 6.5 herein must be an unlimited general obligation of the officer but need not be secured and may be accepted without reference to financial ability to make repayment.
 
6.7
  
Procedures for Expense Determinations.
Determinations and authorizations of payments under Section 6.5 herein shall be made in the same manner as is specified in Section 6.3 herein.
 
6.8
 
Indemnification of Employees and Former Directors.
Every employee and every former director of the Corporation shall be indemnified by the Corporation to the same extent as officers of the Corporation.
 
6.9
  
Nonexclusivity of Right of Indemnification.
The right of indemnification set forth above shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights, including, but not limited to, rights created pursuant to Section 6.11 of these Bylaws, to which an officer, employee, or former director seeking indemnification may be entitled. No combination of rights shall permit any officer, employee or former director of the Corporation to receive a double or greater recovery.
 
6.10
Mandatory Indemnification of Directors and Designated Officers.
The Corporation shall indemnify each of its directors and such of the non-director officers of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries as the Board of Directors may designate, and shall advance expenses, including attorney's fees, to each director and such designated officers, to the maximum extent permitted (or not prohibited) by law, and in accordance with the foregoing, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to enter into individual indemnity agreements on behalf of the Corporation with each director and such designated officers which provide for such indemnification and expense advancement and to adopt resolutions which provide for such indemnification and expense advancement.
 
6.11
Insurance.
Notwithstanding anything in this Article Six to the contrary, the Corporation shall have the additional power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee, or agent of the Corporation, or who, while a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee, or agent of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, political
 
action committee, or other enterprise, against liability asserted against or incurred by the person in that capacity or arising from the person's status as a director, officer, employee, or agent, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify the person against the same liability.
 
ARTICLE SEVEN
RETIREMENT
 
7.1
  
Non-Employee Directors.
Directors who are not also officers of the Corporation or its affiliates shall be retired from the Board of Directors as follows:
 
 
 
Except for the incumbent Chairman of the Board on April 20, 2009, who shall be treated as a non-employee director for purposes of these Bylaws, and except as may be otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, directors who are also officers of the Corporation or any of its affiliates will be retired from the Board of Directors on the date of the annual meeting coincident with or next following the date of the director's retirement from or other discontinuation of active service with the Corporation and its affiliates.
 
7.2
  
Officers and Employees.
Except as provided in the following sentence, the Corporation has no compulsory retirement age for its officers or employees. Each officer or employee who has attained 65 years of age and who, for the two-year period immediately before attaining such age, has been employed in a "bona fide executive" or a "high policy-making" position as those terms are used and defined in the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Section 12(c), and the regulations relating to that section prescribed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, all as amended from time to time (collectively, the "ADEA"), shall automatically be terminated by way of compulsory retirement and his or her salary discontinued on the first day of the month coincident with or immediately following the 65th birthday, provided such employee is entitled to an immediate nonforfeitable annual retirement benefit, as specified in the ADEA, in the aggregate amount of at least $44,000. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may continue any such officer or employee in service and designate the capacity in which he or she shall serve, and shall fix the remuneration he or she shall receive. The Board of Directors may also re-employ any former officer who had theretofore been retired.
 
 
 
ARTICLE EIGHT
EXECUTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
 
8.1
  
Definition of "Document."
For purposes of this Article Eight of the Bylaws, the term "document" shall mean a document of any type, including, but not limited to, an agreement, contract, instrument, power of attorney, endorsement, assignment, transfer, stock or bond power, deed, mortgage, deed of trust, lease, indenture, conveyance, proxy, waiver, consent, certificate, declaration, receipt, discharge, release, satisfaction, settlement, schedule, account, affidavit, security, bill, acceptance, bond, undertaking, check, note or other evidence of indebtedness, draft, guaranty, letter of credit, and order.
 
8.2
  
Execution of Documents.
Except as expressly provided in Section 4.20 of these Bylaws (with respect to the Limited Assistant Secretary)and Section 5.1 of these Bylaws (with respect to signatures on certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation), the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, any Business Segment President, any Business Segment Chief Operating Officer, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Credit Officer, the General Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Treasurer, the Secretary, and any other officer, or any of them acting individually, may (i) execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of the Corporation or in the name and on behalf of any division or department of the Corporation any document pertaining to the business, affairs, or property of the Corporation or any division or department of the Corporation, and (ii) delegate to any other officer, employee or agent of the Corporation the power to execute and deliver any such document.
 
8.3
  
Method of Execution by Secretary and Other Officers.
Unless otherwise required by law, the signature of the Secretary on any document may be a facsimile, and the signature of any other officer approved by the Chief Executive Officer or Secretary, before or after the fact, to use a facsimile signature on any document may be a facsimile. The Secretary shall maintain a list of all officers approved to use a facsimile signature.
 
ARTICLE NINE
EMERGENCY BYLAWS
 
9.1
  
Definition of "Emergency."
The provisions of this Article Nine shall be effective only during an "emergency." An "emergency" shall be deemed to exist whenever any two of the officers identified in Section 9.2 of these Bylaws in good faith determine that a quorum of the directors cannot readily be assembled because of a catastrophic event.
 
9.2
  
Notice of Meeting.
A meeting of the Board of Directors may be called by any one director or by any one of the following officers: Chief Executive Officer, President, the Chief Operating Officer, any Business Segment President, any Business Segment Chief Operating Officer, any Senior Executive Vice President, any Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, General Counsel, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, Secretary, or any Executive Officer. Notice of such meeting need be given only to those directors whom it is practical to reach by any means the person calling the meeting deems feasible, including, but not limited to, by publication and radio. Such notice shall be given at least two hours prior to commencement of the meeting.
 
9.3
  
Quorum and Substitute Directors.
. If a quorum has not been obtained, then one or more officers of the Corporation or the Bank present at the emergency meeting of the Board of Directors, as are necessary to achieve a quorum, shall be considered to be substitute directors for purposes of the meeting, and shall serve in order of rank, and within the same rank in order of seniority determined by hire date by the Corporation, the Bank or any of their subsidiaries. In the event that less than a quorum of the directors (including any officers who serve as substitute directors for the meeting) are present, those directors present (including such officers serving as substitute directors) shall constitute a quorum.
 
9.4
  
Action at Meeting.
The Board as constituted pursuant to Section 9.3 and after notice has been provided pursuant to Section 9.2 may take any of the following actions: (i) prescribe emergency powers of the Corporation, (ii) delegate to any officer or director any of the powers of the Board of Directors, (iii) designate lines of succession of officers and agents in the event that any of them are unable to discharge their duties, (iv) relocate
 
the principal office or designate alternative or multiple principal offices, and (v) take any other action that is convenient, helpful, or necessary to carry on the business of the Corporation.
 
9.5
  
Effectiveness of Non-emergency Bylaws.
All provisions of these Bylaws not contained in this Article Nine, which are consistent with the emergency bylaws contained in Article Nine, shall remain effective during the emergency.
 
9.6
  
Termination of Emergency.
Any emergency causing this Article Nine to become operative shall be deemed to be terminated whenever either of the following conditions is met: (i) the directors and any substitute directors determine by a majority vote at a meeting that the emergency is over or (ii) a majority of the directors elected pursuant to the provisions of these Bylaws other than this Article Nine hold a meeting and determine that the emergency is over.
 
9.7
  
Action Taken in Good Faith.
Any corporate action taken in good faith in accordance with the provisions of this Article Nine binds the Corporation and may not be used to impose liability on any director, substitute director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation.
 
ARTICLE TEN
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
 
10.1
Fiscal Year.
The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have authority from time to time to determine whether the Corporation shall operate upon a calendar year basis or upon a fiscal year basis, and if the latter, said Board of Directors shall have power to determine when the said fiscal year shall begin and end.
 
10.2
Dividends.
Dividends on the capital stock of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting pursuant to law. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purposes as the directors shall think conducive to the interest of the Corporation.
 
10.3
Seal.
This Corporation shall have a Corporate Seal which shall consist of an imprint of the name of the Corporation, the state of its incorporation, the year of incorporation and the words "Corporate Seal." The Corporate Seal shall not be required to establish the validity or authenticity of any document executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation.
 
10.4
Notices.
Whenever notice is required to be given to any director, officer or shareholder under any of the provisions of the law, the Charter, or these Bylaws (except for notice required by Sections 2.8 and 3.6 of these Bylaws), it shall not be construed to require personal notice, but such notice may be given in writing by depositing the same in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or by telegram, teletype, facsimile transmission or other form of wire, wireless, or other electronic communication or by private carrier addressed to such shareholder at such address as appears on the Corporation's current record of shareholders, and addressed to such director or officer at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation. If mailed as provided above, notice to a shareholder shall be deemed to be effective at the time when it is deposited in the mail.
 
10.5
Bylaw Amendments.
The Board of Directors shall have power to make, amend and repeal the Bylaws or any Bylaw of the Corporation by vote of not less than a majority of the directors then in office, at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors. The shareholders may make, amend and repeal the Bylaws or any Bylaw of this Corporation at any annual meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock, and all Bylaws made by the directors may be amended or repealed by the shareholders only by the vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of all outstanding voting stock. Without further authorization, at any time the Bylaws are amended, the Secretary is authorized to restate the Bylaws to reflect such amendment, and the Bylaws, as so restated, shall be the Bylaws of the Corporation.
 
 
 
10.6
Authority to Vote Shares.
The Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, any Business Segment President or Business Segment Chief Operating Officer who is an Executive Officer, or the designee or designees of them or any of them, are authorized, jointly or severally, to vote all shares (or other indicia of ownership) beneficially owned by the Corporation for any purposes and to take any action on behalf of the Corporation that is required to be taken by the Corporation as a shareholder or other beneficial owner of any entity whose shares (or other indicia of ownership) are beneficially owned by the Corporation, which they, or any of them, deem appropriate at meetings, annual or special, or without a meeting.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
SECTIONS OF DIRECTOR POLICY
PERTAINING TO COMPENSATION
 
(As amended April 20, 2009)
 
This exhibit sets forth excerpts from the Director Policy of First Horizon National Corporation of all sections in that Policy pertaining to compensation of directors. Other sections of the Policy have been omitted.
 
_________________________________________________________________
 
 
* * * * *
 
Compensation
 
In addition to the other compensation set forth in this section, outside directors will receive the cash compensation set forth in the table below for their service as a director. Outside directors are not separately compensated for Bank Board or Bank committee meetings except for those infrequent meetings that do not occur jointly.
 
*An outside Chairman of the Board will receive the retainer shown above for the outside Chairman of the Board in addition to the $45,000 annual Board retainer, the daily Board attendance fee, and the grant of restricted stock units (as set forth below) and will receive the daily Credit Policy & Executive Committee attendance fee but will not receive any other committee attendance fees.
 
Unless payment is deferred under a duly adopted Company plan or agreement, the annual retainer will be paid quarterly in advance, and the attendance fees will be paid following the
 
meeting. Directors are permitted to elect to defer into an interest-accruing account or the First Horizon National Corporation Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan or any other duly adopted deferral plan, now existing or hereafter approved.
 
To improve the directors' knowledge and understanding of FHNC and FTB and their markets, customers and officers and to enhance each director's service as a director of FHNC, FHNC's non-employee directors are encouraged to become, where practicable, members of one of FTB's Regional Boards. A director who becomes a member of a Regional Board shall not be compensated as a member of the Regional Board but shall receive attendance fees for attendance at Regional Board meetings (at the same rate as is paid for other Regional Board members, not to exceed $500 per meeting) as part of his or her FHNC director compensation. Such director shall report back to the FHNC Board regarding his or her attendance at Regional Board meetings. Membership by an FHNC director on a Regional Board is deemed by FHNC's Board of Directors to be part of the FHNC director's service as a director of FHNC.
 
In addition to retainer and attendance fees, non-employee directors will receive an annual award of restricted stock units ("RSUs") under the Company's 2003 Equity Compensation Plan, or any duly adopted successor plan. Director RSUs: generally will be granted annually in April on the first trading day which begins after the first trading-day session that follows the release of quarterly earnings for the first quarter; will vest on the second Monday in February following the grant; will be paid at vesting in shares of the Company's common stock only; will earn dividend equivalents that will cumulate and be paid in cash at vesting; and will carry no voting or other rights associated with actual stock. When vesting occurs, shares will be delivered reasonably promptly thereafter but in no event later than March 14 following the vesting date. If a director leaves the Board before vesting, the RSUs will be forfeited unless the departure is due to death, disability, retirement, or change in control. The number of director RSUs to be granted for any full-year grant will be determined by dividing $45,000 by the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the grant date. Beginning in 2007, RSU grants will be phased in for each director on a pro-rata basis as his or her outstanding restricted shares vest. As a result of the phase-in, each director will have one of the following occur each year: 800 restricted shares will vest; or, a full grant of RSUs will vest; or, a combination of restricted shares (less than 800) and RSUs (less than 100%) will vest. If a new non-employee director joins the Board other than at an annual meeting, he or she would be granted RSUs pro-rated for the number of quarters remaining until the next annual shareholder meeting, starting with that quarter in which the new director is appointed. For example, a new non-employee director appointed in October would receive two-fourths of the usual annual number of RSUs, granted in October one full business day following the registrant's earnings release and vesting the following year in February.
 
For purposes of non-employee director equity-based awards: "disability" means total and permanent disability; "retirement" means any termination, not caused by death or disability, after the attainment of age 65 or ten years of service as a director of the Company; and, "fair market value" and "change in control" have the meanings given in the plan under which the award was granted.
 
The foregoing equity-based awards are to be made automatically without further action by the Board. However, in a particular case or circumstance, the Board may change or make
 
specific exceptions to any equity award otherwise called for above. Directors may receive such other awards under the Company's 2003 Equity Compensation Plan, or any duly adopted successor plan, as may be approved by the Board. Perquisites and other benefits for non-employee directors are to be provided or paid as approved by the Board.
 
Inside directors will receive no compensation for board or committee membership, committee chairmanship or attendance.
 
* * * * *
 
Retirement
 
Directors of FHNC or FTB shall be retired from the Board of Directors in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bylaws of FHNC or FTB as in effect on the date hereof and as they may be amended from time to time.
 
 
This policy shall be implemented by the Chairman of the Board in cooperation with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of FHNC and FTB. The Chairman of the Board may adopt appropriate interpretations and procedures to assist in implementation of this Policy.
 
 
The Chairman of the Board is delegated the authority to make exceptions to any provision of this policy except the provisions dealing with compensation and retirement. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is delegated the authority to make exceptions to any provision of this policy except the provision dealing with retirement. Any exception to this policy shall be reported to the Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
 
 
 


