FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20090417064635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of First Horizon National Corporation First Quarter 2009 Financial Supplement and Investor Slide Presentation which are scheduled to be released April 17, 2009.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of First Horizon National Corporation's ("Corporation") previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 is not to be considered "filed" under the Exchange Act, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Corporation's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.

 
 
This financial supplement contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information. Those factors include general economic and financial market conditions, including expectations of and actual timing and amount of interest rate movements including the slope of the yield curve, competition, customer and investor responses to these conditions, ability to execute business plans, geopolitical developments, recent and future legislative and regulatory developments, natural disasters, and items mentioned in this financial supplement and in FHN's most recent press release, as well as critical accounting estimates and other factors described in FHN's recent filings with the SEC. FHN disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements included herein or therein to reflect future events or developments.
 
 
 
 
Regional Banking
Capital Markets
National Specialty Lending
Mortgage Banking
Corporate
 
 
 
Summary of First Quarter 2009 Significant Items (in millions)
(First Quarter 2009 vs. Fourth Quarter 2008)
 
Asset Quality
Capital
 
 
 
(First Quarter 2009 vs. Fourth Quarter 2008)
 
Regional Banking
Capital Markets
National Specialty Lending
Mortgage Banking
Taxes
Corporate Segment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
Yields are adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent. Earning assets yields are expressed net of unearned income. Rates are expressed net of unamortized debenture cost for long-term debt. Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income. (a)  Includes loans on nonaccrual status.
 
 
 
 
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
NM  Not meaningful
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
NM  Not meaningful
*   Amount is less than one percent.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
NM  Not meaningful
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
($ in millions)
 
Commercial Portfolio Reserves
 
NRV Assessment of Commercial FAS 114 Impaired Assets with no Reserves
 
ORE Inventory Rollforward
 
NPL Rollforward (a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
C&I Portfolio: $7.7 Billion (37% of Total Loans)
     
 
Homebuilder Portfolio: $1.1 Billion (6% of Total Loans)
As of 3/31/09
     
 
Income CRE Portfolio: $1.9 Billion (9% of Total Loans)
As of 3/31/09
     
 
 
     
 
Consumer Real Estate (primarily Home Equity) Portfolio: $7.6 Billion (37% of Total Loans)
As of 3/31/09
As of 3/31/09
As of 3/31/09
     
 
One-Time Close (OTC) Portfolio: $773 Million (4% of Total Loans)
As of 3/31/09
     
 
 
Commercial Loans (Real Estate / C&I)
Risk Grading
Reserves are established using historical loss factors by grade level. Relationship managers risk rate each loan using grades that reflect both the probability of default and estimated loss in the event of default. Loans with emerging weaknesses receive increased oversight through our Watch List process.
Portfolio Reviews are conducted regularly to provide oversight of risk grading decisions for larger credits.
Watch List Process
For new Watch List loans, senior credit management reviews risk grade appropriateness and action plans. After initial identification, relationship managers prepare regular updates for review and discussion by more senior business line and credit officers. This oversight is intended to bring consistent grading and allow timely identification of loans that need to be further downgraded or placed on non-accrual status.
Classified & Non-Accruals
When a loan becomes classified, the asset generally transfers to the specialists in our Loan Rehab and Recovery group where the accounts receive more detailed monitoring; at this time, new appraisals are typically ordered for real estate collateral dependent credits.
Loans are placed on non-accrual status if it becomes evident that full collection of principal and interest is at risk or if the loans become 90 days or more past due.
Impairment Assessment
Generally, classified non-accrual loans over $1 million are deemed to be impaired in accordance with SFAS 114 and are assessed for impairment measurement. For impaired assets viewed as collateral dependent, fair value estimates are obtained from a recently received and reviewed appraisal. Appraised values are adjusted down for costs associated with asset disposal and for our estimate of any further deterioration in values since the most recent appraisal. Upon the determination of impairment, we charge off the full difference between book value and our best estimate of the asset's net realizable value.
One-Time Close (OTC) Loans
For OTC real estate construction loans, reserve levels are established based on portfolio modeling and monthly portfolio reviews conducted with business line managers and credit officers. The inherent risk in credits is examined and evaluated based on factors such as draw inactivity and borrower conditions, often recognizing problems prior to delinquency. In addition, OTC loans that reach 90 days past due are placed on non-accrual. A new appraisal is ordered for loans that reach 90 days past due or are classified as substandard during the monthly portfolio review. Loans are initially written down to current appraised value. Loans are then assessed for charge down again when they reach 180 days past due, and again when they are taken into OREO.
Home Equity Loans & Lines
For home equity loans and lines, reserve levels are established through the use of several models that look at historical losses, cumulative vintage performance, and roll rates. Loans are classified substandard at 90 days delinquent. Our collateral position is assessed prior to the asset becoming 180 days delinquent. If the value does not support foreclosure, balances are charged-off and other avenues of recovery are pursued. If the value supports foreclosure, the loan is charged down to net realizable value and is placed on non-accrual status. When collateral is taken to OREO, the asset is assessed for further write down to appraised value.
 
A fee charged to the borrower for the cost of appraising a property.
Appraisal Fees:
A fee charged to the borrower for the cost of obtaining the borrower's credit report.
Credit Report Fee:
The timing difference between collecting and recognizing origination fees on a loan not carried at elected fair value. For loans held for sale not carried at elected fair value, origination fees are recognized at the time the loan is sold, not at the time the loan is originated.
FAS 91 Fee Deferral:
The reclassification of the cost of originating mortgage warehouse loans, not carried at elected fair value, sold during the period.
FAS 91 Reclassification:
Commercial loans over $1 million that are not expected to pay all contractually due principal and interest and consumer loans that have experienced a troubled debt restructuring. These loans are generally written down to an estimate of collateral value less cost to sell.
FAS 114 Loans:
A fee charged to the borrower to inspect a property.
Final Inspection Fee:
A method of accounting for certain assets by recording them at the lower of their historical cost or their current market value.
Lower of Cost or Market (LOCOM):
A fee charged to the borrower by the lender to originate a loan. Usually stated as a percentage of the face value of the loan.
Origination Fees:
Shareholders' equity excluding intangible assets and unrealized gains/losses on available for sale securities and cash flow hedges divided by risk weighted assets.
Tangible Equity/RWA:
Asset Quality  Consolidated Key Ratios
Ratio is nonperforming loans in the loan portfolio to total period end loans.
NPL %:
Ratio is nonperforming assets related to the loan portfolio to total period end loans plus foreclosed real estate and other assets.
NPA %:
Ratio is annualized net charge-offs to total average loans.
Net charge-offs %:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to total period end loans.
Allowance / Loans:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to total period end loans excluding insured loans.
Allowance to loans excluding insured loans:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans in the loan portfolio.
Allowance / NPL:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to nonperforming assets related to the loan portfolio.
Allowance / NPA:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-offs.
Allowance / Charge-offs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


