FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20100409100852.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of First Horizon National Corporation's press release issued April 9, 2010, regarding the modification of its operating segments as well as presentation of selected prior period data that conforms to the new segment structure.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Company's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., April 9, 2010 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- In first quarter 2010 First Horizon National Corporation (NYSE:FHN) modified its operating segments to better align with its strategic focus on the regional banking franchise and capital markets business. There is no impact on the company's previously reported consolidated results. Key changes include the addition of the Non-Strategic segment which combines the former Mortgage Banking and National Specialty Lending segments; correspondent banking has been moved from Capital Markets to Regional Banking; and first lien mortgage production is now in the Regional Bank segment. The new segment structure, description and activities include the following:
Regional Banking
Traditional lending and deposit-taking, investments, insurance services, financial planning, trust services, asset management, cash management, and health savings accounts
Correspondent banking, which provides credit, depository and other banking-related services to other financial institutions
Previously included in Capital Markets segment
First lien mortgage originations through regional banking channels
Previously included in Mortgage Banking segment
Capital Markets
Fixed income sales, trading and strategies for institutional clients in U.S. and abroad
Other capital markets products such as portfolio advisory, derivatives and loan trading
Corporate
Executive management, enterprise-wide risk management, corporate finance, corporate communications, low-income housing activities, legal functions and funding for the corporation including any impact from balance sheet positioning
Various charges related to restructuring, repositioning and efficiency initiatives
Non-Strategic
Combines Previous National Specialty Lending and Mortgage Banking Segments
Wind-down businesses that include:
National commercial and consumer lending loan portfolios
Trust preferred loan portfolio
Previously included in Capital Markets segment
Legacy mortgage servicing
Exited businesses (such as national mortgage banking and institutional equity research) and associated restructuring, repositioning, and efficiency charges
The tables provided at the end of this release present selected prior-period data that conforms to the newly revised segment structure. A complete financial supplement and investor slide presentation that includes results for the quarter ended March 31 will be released and posted on FHN's investor relations website, http://ir.fhnc.com, on April 16.
About First Horizon
The 5,500 employees of First Horizon National Corp. (NYSE:FHN) provide financial services through about 180 bank locations in and around Tennessee and 18 FTN Financial Group offices in the U.S. and abroad. First Tennessee has the leading combined market deposit share in the 17 Tennessee counties where it does business and one of the highest customer retention rates of any bank in the country. FTN Financial is an industry leader in fixed income sales, trading and strategies for institutional clients in the U.S. and abroad. FHN has been recognized as one of the nation's best employers by AARP and Working Mother magazines.  More information can be found at www.fhnc.com. 
FHN-G
A chart accompanying this release is available at http://media.globenewswire.com/cache/3323/file/8076.pdf
CONTACT:  First Horizon National Corporation          Media Information          Anthony Hicks            (901) 523-4726          Investor Relations          Aarti Bowman            (901) 523-4017


