FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20101015070047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of First Horizon National Corporation Financial Supplement and Investor Slide Presentation for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, which are scheduled to be released October 15, 2010.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of First Horizon National Corporation's ("Corporation") previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 is not to be considered "filed" under the Exchange Act, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Corporation's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Other Information
This financial supplement contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information. Those factors include general economic and financial market conditions, including expectations of and actual timing and amount of interest rate movements including the slope of the yield curve, competition, customer and investor responses to these conditions, ability to execute business plans, geopolitical developments, recent and future legislative and regulatory developments, natural disasters, and items mentioned in this financial supplement and in First Horizon National Corporation's (FHN) most recent press release, as well as critical accounting estimates and other factors described in FHN's recent filings with the SEC. FHN disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements included herein or therein to reflect future events or developments.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
Certain capital-related ratios are included in this financial supplement that are non-GAAP, meaning they are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. FHN's management believes such ratios are relevant to understanding the capital position and results of the Company. The non-GAAP ratios presented in this Financial Supplement are tangible common equity to tangible common assets, tangible book value per common share, tier 1 common to risk weighted assets, and adjusted tangible common equity to risk weighted assets. These ratios are reported to FHN's management and Board of Directors through various internal reports. Additionally, disclosure of these ratios provides a meaningful base for comparability to other financial institutions as these ratios have become an important measure of the capital strength of banks as demonstrated by the inclusion in the stress tests administered by the United States Treasury Department under the Capital Assistance Program. Non-GAAP measures are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, and other entities may use calculation methods that differ from those used by FHN. Tier 1 capital is a regulatory term and is generally defined as the sum of core capital (including common equity and instruments that can not be redeemed at the option of the holder) adjusted for certain items under risk based capital regulations. Also a regulatory term, risk weighted assets includes total assets adjusted for credit risk and is used to determine capital ratios. Refer to the tabular reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures and presentation of the most comparable GAAP items on page 32 of this financial supplement.
 
 
Regional Banking
Capital Markets
Corporate
Non-Strategic
 
 
(Third Quarter 2010 vs. Second Quarter 2010)
Asset Quality
Capital
Taxes
 
(Third Quarter 2010 vs. Second Quarter 2010)
Regional Banking
Capital Markets
Corporate
Non-Strategic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NM  Not meaningful
*   Amount is less than one percent.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) 2Q10 period end assets include $621.6 million of trading loans which were sold in 3Q10; these loans comprise $261.4 million of the increase in average trading inventory in 3Q10.
 
NM  Not meaningful
*   Amount is less than one percent.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
 
 
 
 
C&I Portfolio: $7.3 Billion (43% of Total Loans)
 
Income CRE Portfolio: $1.5 Billion (9% of Total Loans)
As of 9/30/10
 
Homebuilder Portfolio: $324 Million (2% of Total Loans)
As of 9/30/10
 
 
 
Consumer Real Estate (primarily Home Equity) Portfolio: $6.5 Billion (38% of Total Loans)
As of 9/30/10
As of 9/30/10
As of 9/30/10
 
Permanent Mortgage Portfolio: $1.0 Billion (6% of Total Loans)
As of 9/30/10
 
 
Commercial Loans (Real Estate / C&I)
Risk Grading
Reserves are established using historical loss factors by grade level. Relationship managers risk rate each loan using grades that reflect both the probability of default and estimated loss in the event of default. Loans with emerging weaknesses receive increased oversight through our Watch List process.
Watch List Process
For new Watch List loans, senior credit management reviews risk grade appropriateness and action plans. After initial identification, relationship managers prepare regular updates for review and discussion by more senior business line and credit officers. This oversight is intended to bring consistent grading and allow timely identification of loans that need to be further downgraded or placed on non-accrual status.
Classified and Non-Accruals
When a loan becomes classified, the asset generally transfers to the specialists in our Loan Rehab and Recovery group where the accounts receive more active management and detailed monitoring; at this time, new appraisals are typically ordered for real estate collateral dependent credits.
Loans are placed on non-accrual status if it becomes evident that full collection of principal and interest is at risk, or if loans become 90 days or more past due.
Impairment Assessment
Generally, classified non-accrual loans over $1 million are deemed to be impaired in accordance with GAAP and are assessed for impairment measurement. For impaired assets viewed as collateral dependent, fair value estimates are obtained from a recently received and reviewed appraisal. Appraised values are adjusted down for costs associated with asset disposal and for our estimate of any further deterioration in values since the most recent appraisal. Upon the determination of impairment, we charge off the full difference between book value and our best estimate of the asset's net realizable value. For assets evaluated using a discounted cash flow methodology, loans are discounted using the applicable note rate, and typically reserves are maintained.
 
Home Equity Loans and Lines
For home equity loans and lines, reserve levels are established through the use of segmented roll rate models. Loans are classified substandard at 90 days delinquent. Our collateral position is assessed prior to the asset becoming 180 days delinquent. If the value does not support foreclosure, balances are charged off and other avenues of recovery are pursued. If the value supports foreclosure, the loan is charged down to net realizable value and is placed on non-accrual status. When collateral is taken to OREO, the asset is assessed for further write-down to a percentage of appraised value.
 
 
 
Shareholders' equity excluding intangible assets and unrealized gains/losses on available for sale securities and cash flow hedges divided by risk weighted assets.
Adjusted Tangible Equity/RWA:
A fee charged to the borrower for the cost of appraising a property.
Appraisal Fees:
The timing difference between collecting and recognizing origination fees on a loan not carried at elected fair value. For loans held for sale not carried at elected fair value, origination fees are recognized at the time the loan is sold, not at the time the loan is originated.
ASC 310 Fee Deferral:
The reclassification of the cost of originating mortgage warehouse loans, not carried at elected fair value, sold during the period.
ASC 310 Reclassification:
Adjustment to reflect the initial application of Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-17, which includes the initial effects of consolidating previously off-balance sheet securitization trusts. The net impact of initial adoption was offset through a cumulative effect adjustment to undivided profits.
ASC 810 Adjustment:
Management treats regional banking, capital markets, and corporate as FHN's core businesses. Non-strategic has significant legacy assets and operations that are being wound down.
Core Business Segments:
A fee charged to the borrower for the cost of obtaining the borrower's credit report.
Credit Report Fee:
A fee charged to the borrower to inspect a property.
Final Inspection Fee:
Commercial loans over $1 million that are not expected to pay all contractually due principal and interest and consumer loans that have experienced a troubled debt restructuring and are individually evaluated for impairment. The estimated loss on these loans is determined using a discounted cash flow ("DCF") methodology or the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell, if the loan is considered collateral dependent. In accordance with accounting requirements, DCF loans are discounted using the applicable note rate, and typically reserves are maintained for DCF loans. Collateral dependent loans are generally charged off to the estimate of collateral value less cost to sell leaving no associated reserve.
Individually Impaired Loans:
A method of accounting for certain assets by recording them at the lower of their historical cost or their current market value.
Lower of Cost or Market (LOCOM):
A fee charged to the borrower by the lender to originate a loan. Usually stated as a percentage of the face value of the loan.
Origination Fees:
The 2010 requirement by Federal Reserve Board Regulation E that consumer customers of banks must elect, or opt-in, to continue to be eligible for fee-based overdraft protection services regarding debit card and ATM transactions. Consumer customers who do not opt-in cannot be charged fees for such services and will not receive such services.
Reg E Opt-In:
Assets of a consolidated variable interest entity that can be used only to settle obligations of the consolidated variable interest entity and liabilities of a consolidated variable interest entity for which creditors (or beneficial interest holders) do not have recourse to the general credit of the primary beneficiary.
Restricted Balances:
A restructuring of debt whereby a creditor for economic or legal reasons related to the borrower's financial difficulties grants a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. Such concession is granted in an attempt to protect as much of the creditor's investment as possible by increasing the probability of repayment.
Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR):
 
Asset Quality  Consolidated Key Ratios
 
Ratio is nonperforming loans in the loan portfolio to total period end loans.
NPL %:
Ratio is nonperforming assets related to the loan portfolio to total period end loans plus foreclosed real estate and other assets.
NPA %:
Ratio is annualized net charge-offs to total average loans.
Net charge-offs %:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to total period end loans.
Allowance / Loans:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to total period end loans excluding insured loans.
Allowance to loans excluding insured loans:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans in the loan portfolio.
Allowance / NPL:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to nonperforming assets related to the loan portfolio.
Allowance / NPA:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-offs.
Allowance / Charge-offs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


