FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20110421071549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of First Horizon National Corporation Financial Supplement and Investor Slide Presentation for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, which are scheduled to be released April 21, 2011.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of First Horizon National Corporation's ("Corporation") previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 is not to be considered "filed" under the Exchange Act, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Corporation's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Other Information
This financial supplement contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information. Those factors include general economic and financial market conditions, including expectations of and actual timing and amount of interest rate movements including the slope of the yield curve, competition, customer and investor responses to these conditions, ability to execute business plans, geopolitical developments, recent and future legislative and regulatory developments, natural disasters, and items mentioned in this financial supplement and in First Horizon National Corporation's (FHN) most recent press release, as well as critical accounting estimates and other factors described in FHN's recent filings with the SEC. FHN disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements included herein or therein to reflect future events or developments.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
Certain ratios are included in this financial supplement that are non-GAAP, meaning they are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. FHN's management believes such ratios are relevant to understanding the capital position and results of the Company. The non-GAAP ratios presented in this Financial Supplement are tangible common equity to tangible assets, tangible book value per common share, tier 1 common to risk weighted assets, adjusted tangible common equity to risk weighted assets, and net interest margin adjusted for FTE. These ratios are reported to FHN's management and Board of Directors through various internal reports. Additionally, disclosure of these ratios provides a meaningful base for comparability to other financial institutions as the capital ratios have become an important measure of the capital strength of banks as demonstrated by the inclusion in the stress tests administered by the United States Treasury Department under the Capital Assistance Program. Non-GAAP measures are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, and other entities may use calculation methods that differ from those used by FHN. Tier 1 capital is a regulatory term and is generally defined as the sum of core capital (including common equity and instruments that can not be redeemed at the option of the holder) adjusted for certain items under risk based capital regulations. Also a regulatory term, risk weighted assets includes total assets adjusted for credit risk and is used to determine capital ratios. Refer to the tabular reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures and presentation of the most comparable GAAP items on page 29 of this financial supplement.
 
 
 
Regional Banking
Capital Markets
Corporate
Non-Strategic
 
 
(Millions)
Summary of First Quarter 2011 Significant Items
(First Quarter 2011 vs. Fourth Quarter 2010)
 
Regional Banking
Capital Markets
Corporate
 
 
(First Quarter 2011 vs. Fourth Quarter 2010)
 
Non-Strategic
Asset Quality
Capital and Liquidity
Taxes (Operating Results)
 
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) Primarily includes goodwill impairment, severance, and other charges related to the exit of the institutional equity research business and First Horizon Insurance.
 
NM  Not meaningful N/A  Not applicable * Amount is less than one percent. Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation. (a) Shares restated for stock dividends distributed through January 1, 2011. (b) Restricted balances parenthetically presented are as of March 31, 2011. (c) NPAs related to the loan portfolio over period-end loans plus foreclosed real estate and other assets. (d) Calculated using net income. (e) Calculated using net income available to common shareholders. (f) Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income adjusted for FTE. (g) Refer to the Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation on page 29 of this financial supplement. (h) Ratio excludes securities gains/(losses). (i) Noninterest expense divided by total revenue excluding securities gains/(losses).
 
NM  Not meaningful * Amount is less than one percent. Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation. (a) 1Q11 includes $3.3 million reversal of the contingent liability for certain Visa legal matters. (b) 1Q11 includes a portion of net charges related to Restructuring, Repositioning, & Efficiency Initiatives.
 
NM  Not meaningful * Amount is less than one percent. Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation. (a) 1Q10 includes cancellation of an HLTV insurance contract and return of $3.8 million of premiums. (b) 1Q11 includes $3.3 million reversal of the contingent liability for certain Visa legal matters. (c) 1Q11 includes a portion of net charges related to Restructuring, Repositioning, & Efficiency Initiatives.
 
 
NM  Not meaningful * Amount is less than one percent. Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) Restricted balances parenthetically presented are as of March 31, 2011. (b) Includes excess balances held at Fed. (c) 1Q11 includes $15.7 million of foreclosed assets related to government insured mortgages (d) 1Q11 average core deposits were $14.6 billion.
(e) Includes preferred stock of subsidiary.
 
     
 
NM  Not meaningful
*  Amount is less than one percent.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) Restricted balances parenthetically presented are as of March 31, 2011.
(b) Includes loans on nonaccrual status.
(c) Includes excess balances held at Fed.
 
     
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
Yields are adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent ("FTE"). Refer to the Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation on page 29 for reconciliation of net interest income (GAAP) to net interest income adjusted for impact of FTE  (non-GAAP).
(a) Includes loans on nonaccrual status.
(b) Earning assets yields are expressed net of unearned income.
(c) Rates are expressed net of unamortized debenture cost for term borrowings.
 
 
NM  Not meaningful
 
NM  Not meaningful
 
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) Noninterest expense divided by total revenue.
(b) Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income adjusted for FTE. Refer to the Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation on page 29 of this supplement.
 
NM - Not meaningful
* Amount is less than one percent.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) 1Q11 period-end balance is $151 million. First lien mortgage loans were recognized in 4Q10 through the exercise of cleanup calls for certain proprietary first lien securitization trusts.
(b) Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income adjusted for FTE. Refer to the Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation on page 29 of this supplement.
 
NM - Not meaningful
* Amount is less than one percent.
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) Net interest margin is computed using total net interest income adjusted for FTE. Refer to the Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation on page 29 of this supplement.
(b) Noninterest expense divided by total revenue excluding securities gains/(losses).
 
Certain previously reported items have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) Includes servicing of first liens, second liens, and HELOC.
(b) Includes loans serviced from FHN's legacy mortgage banking business, legacy equity lending, and FHN's portfolio loans. Excludes UPB of loans transferred that did not qualify for sales treatment.
(c) Includes weighted average fee of servicing asset and excess interest.
(d) Calculated based on fees charged by subservicer divided by average number of loans serviced during the quarter.
(e) Includes MSR and mortgage trading securities divided by total average servicing portfolio.
(f) For purposes of this calculation, average MSR excludes servicing transferred that did not qualify for sales treatment due to certain recourse provisions.
(g) Excludes delinquency rate of second liens and HELOC.
 
* Amount is less than one percent
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) Current quarter is an estimate.
(b) 1Q11 and 4Q10 include $200 million of tier 1 qualifying trust preferred securities; prior quarters included $300 million.
(c) Refer to the Non-GAAP to GAAP Reconciliation on page 29 of this financial supplement.
(d) Calculated on period-end balances.
(e) See Glossary of Terms for definition of ratio.
(f) Shares restated for stock dividends distributed through January 1, 2011.
 
N/A  Not applicable
NM  Not meaningful
* Amount is less than one percent.
(a) See Glossary of Terms for definition of ASC 810 adjustment.
(b) Restricted balances parenthetically presented are as of March 31, 2011. See Glossary of Terms for definition of restricted balances.
(c) The valuation adjustment taken at the time of repurchase continues to reflect probable incurred losses.
(d) 1Q11 includes $87.4 million of loans held for sale.
(e) See Glossary of Terms for definitions of Consolidated Key Ratios.
(f) Includes loans held for sale.
 
* Amount is less than one percent
(a) 30+ Delinquency % includes all accounts delinquent more than one month and still accruing interest.
(b) Select remaining OTC amounts: PE loans: $15.1 million; NPL: 100%; Allowance: $2.6 million; 1Q11 Net Charge-offs: $1.2 million.
(c) Prior to 1Q10, certain amounts were included in Consumer Real Estate.
(d) 1Q11 includes $672.4 million of consumer real estate loans and $49.9 million of permanent mortgage loans.
 
(a) Includes Commercial and One-Time Close Portfolios only.
(b) OREO excludes foreclosed assets related to government insured mortgages.
 
* Amount is less than one percent
NM  Not meaningful
N/A  Not applicable
Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to agree with current presentation.
(a) 30+ Delinquency % includes all accounts delinquent more than one month and still accruing interest.
 
(a) 30+ Delinquency % includes all accounts delinquent more than one month and still accruing interest.
(b) Includes trust preferred loan portfolio and other exited businesses.
(c) Select remaining OTC amounts: PE loans: $15.1 million; NPL: 100%; Allowance: $2.6 million; 1Q11 Net Charge-offs: $1.2 million.
(d) 1Q11 includes $672.4 million of consumer real estate loans and $49.9 million of permanent mortgage loans.
 
 
C&I Portfolio: $6.8 Billion (42.6% of Total Loans)
 
Income CRE Portfolio: $1.4 Billion (8.8% of Total Loans)
 
Consumer Real Estate (primarily Home Equity) Portfolio: $6.2 Billion (38.6% of Total Loans) (a)
Consumer Real Estate Portfolio Detail:
 
Permanent Mortgage Portfolio: $1.1 Billion (6.8% of Total Loans) (a) (b) (c)
 
Commercial Loans (Real Estate / C&I)
Home Equity Loans and Lines
 
Shareholders' equity excluding intangible assets and unrealized gains/losses on available for sale securities and cash flow hedges divided by risk weighted assets.
Adjusted Tangible Equity/RWA:
Adjustment to reflect the initial application of Accounting Standards Update No. 2009-17, which includes the initial effects of consolidating previously off-balance sheet securitization trusts. The net impact of initial adoption was offset through a cumulative effect adjustment to undivided profits.
ASC 810 Adjustment:
Management treats regional banking, capital markets, and corporate as FHN's core businesses. Non-strategic has significant legacy assets and operations that are being wound down.
Core Business Segments:
Commercial loans over $1 million that are not expected to pay all contractually due principal and interest and consumer loans that have experienced a troubled debt restructuring and are individually evaluated for impairment. The estimated loss on these loans is determined using a discounted cash flow ("DCF") methodology or the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell, if the loan is considered collateral dependent. In accordance with accounting requirements, DCF loans are discounted using the applicable note rate, and typically reserves are maintained for DCF loans. Collateral dependent loans are generally charged off to the estimate of collateral value less cost to sell leaving no associated reserve.
Individually Impaired Loans:
A method of accounting for certain assets by recording them at the lower of their historical cost or their current market value.
Lower of Cost or Market (LOCOM):
The 2010 requirement by Federal Reserve Board Regulation E that consumer customers of banks must elect, or opt-in, to continue to be eligible for fee-based overdraft protection services regarding debit card and ATM transactions. Consumer customers who do not opt-in cannot be charged fees for such services and will not receive such services.
Reg E Opt-In:
Assets of a consolidated variable interest entity that can be used only to settle obligations of the consolidated variable interest entity and liabilities of a consolidated variable interest entity for which creditors (or beneficial interest holders) do not have recourse to the general credit of the primary beneficiary.
Restricted Balances:
A restructuring of debt whereby a creditor for economic or legal reasons related to the borrower's financial difficulties grants a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. Such concession is granted in an attempt to protect as much of the creditor's investment as possible by increasing the probability of repayment.
Troubled Debt Restructuring (TDR):
Asset Quality  Consolidated Key Ratios
 
Ratio is nonperforming loans in the loan portfolio to total period end loans.
NPL %:
Ratio is nonperforming assets related to the loan portfolio to total period end loans plus foreclosed real estate and other assets.
NPA %:
Ratio is annualized net charge-offs to total average loans.
Net charge-offs %:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to total period end loans.
Allowance / loans:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to total period end loans excluding insured loans.
Allowance to loans excluding insured loans:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans in the loan portfolio.
Allowance / NPL:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to nonperforming assets related to the loan portfolio.
Allowance / NPA:
Ratio is allowance for loan losses to annualized net charge-offs.
Allowance / charge-offs:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


