FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20111017071622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Furnished as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of First Horizon National Corporation's earnings release for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, which was issued October 17, 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Company's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, is not to be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), and shall not be incorporated by reference into any of the Company's previous or future filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.

EXHIBIT 99.1
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Oct. 17, 2011 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Third quarter financial results show First Horizon National Corp. (NYSE:FHN) ramped up core business profitability and significantly lowered non-performing loans. Balance sheet trends generally were favorable and the company continued to make progress on lowering expenses in core businesses, but environmental costs remained elevated primarily from increased GSE-related mortgage repurchase provision expenses. First Horizon has also launched a program to repurchase up to $100 million of its common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions, by the end of August 2012.
"We remain focused on controlling what we can control in this challenging environment. Our third quarter results show that we're making solid progress in strengthening First Tennessee, our regional banking business, and FTN Financial, our capital markets business," said Bryan Jordan, First Horizon's CEO. "I'm proud of the work our employees do day in and day out to help our customers have an unparalleled experience when they do business with us."
Financial results
Net income available to common shareholders improved to $36.1 million, compared to second quarter's net income of $20.0 million.
Net income in core businesses improved to $94.4 million, up from $26.9 million in the second quarter.
Diluted earnings per share were $0.14 for the quarter, up from last quarter's EPS of $0.08.
Core business strength
Regional bank pre-tax income was up 26 percent compared to last quarter, and total revenue grew 2 percent, driven by higher net interest income and steady fee income. Period-end loans improved 5 percent from last quarter, driven by loans to mortgage companies and corporate borrowers and asset-based lending. According to recent FDIC data, First Tennessee's deposits in Tennessee improved 6.5 percent over last year, more than two and one-half times the growth rate in First Tennessee's markets. In Middle Tennessee, deposits grew nearly 7.5 percent, the fastest among the top banks. 
Capital markets pre-tax income was $27.9 million in the third quarter, compared to a pre-tax loss of $19.9 million in the second quarter, which included a $36.7 million litigation expense. Revenues improved 26 percent as fixed income average daily revenue increased to $1.4 million in the third quarter from $1.1 million in the second quarter. 
In the corporate segment, pre-tax income was $18.6 million for the third quarter, which included $35.1 million of securities gains from the sale of Visa stock. That compares to a pre-tax loss of $26.8 million in the second quarter.
The pre-tax loss in the non-strategic segment for the third quarter was $97.9 million, compared to a $12.6 million loss in the second quarter. The higher loss was driven primarily by an increase in mortgage repurchase expense of $28 million and an increase in provision for loans losses due to non-performing loan sales. 
Continued improvement in credit quality
First Horizon saw continued improvement in credit quality in the third quarter. 
The total provision for loan losses in the third quarter was $32 million. The increase in provision reflects losses of $36 million related to the sales of non-performing loans. 
The loans sold accounted for 45 percent of total net charge-offs.
Efficiency
The company remains focused on enhancing productivity, with a target efficiency ratio of 60 percent to 65 percent, while continuing to deliver unparalleled service to customers. In the regional bank, which makes up nearly half of total assets, the efficiency ratio improved to 65.83 percent and revenue per full-time equivalent employee (FTE) increased 5 percent from last quarter. 
Company-wide expenses improved 6 percent percent from the second quarter.
Use of non-GAAP measures
Certain measures are included in the text and tables of this release that are non-GAAP, meaning they are not presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. FHN's management believes such measures are relevant to understanding the capital position and results of the company. The non-GAAP items presented in this release are net income related to core businesses, tangible common equity to tangible assets, tangible book value per common share and net interest margin computed using net interest income adjusted for FTE (fully taxable equivalent). These measures are reported to FHN's management and board of directors through various internal reports. Additionally, disclosure of the non-GAAP capital ratios provides a meaningful base for comparability to other financial institutions as these ratios have become an important measure of the capital strength of banks as demonstrated by the inclusion in the stress tests administered by the United States Treasury Department under the Capital Assistance Program. Non-GAAP measures are not formally defined by GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations, and other entities may use calculation methods that differ from those used by FHN. The reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures and presentation of the most comparable GAAP items is contained in the following table.
Conference Call
Management will hold a conference call at 8:00 a.m. Central Time today to review earnings and performance trends. There will also be a live webcast accompanied by a slide presentation, and the financial supplement and slide presentation are available in the events and presentations section of Callers wishing to participate may call toll-free starting at 7:45 a.m. Central Time by dialing 877-303-6618. The number for international participants is 224-357-2205. The conference ID number is 13901680. 
http://ir.fhnc.com
. 
Participants can also listen to the live audio webcast with the accompanying slide presentation through the investor relations section of . A replay will be available from noon Central Time today until 11:59 p.m. Oct. 24. To listen to the replay, callers should dial 855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406. The passcode is 13901680. The event also will be archived and available by midnight tonight in the events and presentations section of .
www.fhnc.com
http://ir.fhnc.com
Other information
This press release contains forward-looking statements involving significant risks and uncertainties. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking information. Those factors include general economic and financial market conditions, including expectations of and actual timing and amount of interest rate movements including the slope of the yield curve, competition, ability to execute business plans, geopolitical developments, recent and future legislative and regulatory developments, inflation or deflation, market (particularly real estate market) and monetary fluctuations, natural disasters, customer, investor and regulatory responses to these conditions and items already mentioned in this press release, as well as critical accounting estimates and other factors described in FHN's annual report on Form 10-K and other recent filings with the SEC. FHN disclaims any obligation to update any such factors or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements included herein or therein to reflect future events or developments.
About First Horizon
The 4,800 employees of First Horizon National Corp. (NYSE:FHN) provide financial services through more than 170 bank locations in and around Tennessee and 18 FTN Financial Group offices in the U.S. and abroad. First Tennessee Bank has the leading combined market deposit share in the counties where it does business and one of the highest customer retention rates of any bank in the country. FTN Financial is a capital markets industry leader in fixed income sales, trading and strategies for institutional clients in the U.S. and abroad. FHN has been recognized as one of the nation's best employers by AARP and Working Mother magazines. More information is available at www.fhnc.com.
FHN-G
CONTACT: Jack Bradley, Media Relations, (901)523-4813         Aarti Bowman, Investor Relations, (901)523-4017


