FILE:FHN/FHN-8K-20111222161305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
(e) On December 21, 2011, the Company and Charles G. Burkett, a former executive officer of the Company, entered into a consulting arrangement. Under the arrangement Mr. Burkett has agreed to serve as an Executive Director of First Horizon Foundation. The Company has agreed to pay Mr. Burkett a monthly consulting fee of $9,166.66 for his services. Mr. Burkett's engagement may be terminated by either party on four weeks' notice.
The Foundation is a private charitable foundation established in 1993 by the Company to support nonprofit organizations primarily in the communities served by First Tennessee Bank. The engagement of Mr. Burkett is intended to take advantage of Mr. Burkett's extensive experience with those communities.
A memorandum evidencing the arrangement is filed as an exhibit to this Report. The foregoing descriptions are subject to the legal terms of the arrangement.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
All summaries and descriptions of documents, and of amendments thereto, set forth above are qualified in their entirety by the documents themselves, whether filed as an exhibit hereto or filed as an exhibit to a later report.
In many agreements filed as exhibits, each party makes representations and warranties to other parties. Those representations and warranties are made only to and for the benefit of those other parties in the context of a business contract. Exceptions to such representations and warranties may be partially or fully waived by such parties, or not enforced by such parties, in their discretion. No such representation or warranty may be relied upon by any other person for any purpose.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
This memo is to confirm our agreement to continue your role with the First Horizon Foundation after you retire from the Company. First Horizon National and First Tennessee Bank want you to serve the Foundation as an Executive Director in a non-employee capacity. This proposal is intended to leverage your reputation and contacts in the community.
Details on the administration of your payments under this agreement are in the attached addendum.
I am excited to extend this opportunity and look forward to your continued support of the Bank.


