Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following is a discussion and analysis of RAIs business, initiatives, critical accounting policies and its consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Following the overview and discussion of business initiatives, the critical accounting policies disclose certain accounting policies that are material to RAIs results of operations and financial condition for the periods presented in this report. The discussion and analysis of RAIs results of operations is presented in two comparative sections, 2004 compared with 2003 and 2003 compared with 2002. Disclosures related to liquidity and financial condition complete managements discussion and analysis. You should read this discussion and analysis of RAIs consolidated financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 and for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2004. Overview and Business Initiatives RAI was incorporated in the state of North Carolina on January 5, 2004, for the purpose of facilitating the transactions to combine RJR Tobacco with the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W. The combination transactions combined the businesses of two of the largest industry participants with strong brands, creating efficiencies and cost reductions through synergies. Upon completion of the combination transactions on July 30, 2004, B&W owned 61,952,762 shares, or 42% of RAIs outstanding common stock. The consideration assigned to the shares issued to and held by B&W was approximately $2.8 billion, or $45.882 per share, based on the average closing price of RJR common stock during the five day period beginning two days before and ending two days after the announcement on October 23, 2003, of the combination transactions. Previous RJR stockholders were issued common shares of RAI in exchange for their existing RJR shares, on a one for one basis, resulting in their ownership of approximately 58% of RAIs common stock outstanding at the closing. No indebtedness for borrowed money of B&W was assumed by RAI. The transaction is expected to be tax free to RJR stockholders, and is being treated as a purchase of the B&W net assets by RJR for financial accounting purposes. The consolidated financial statements of RAI include results of acquired operations subsequent to July 30, 2004. As part of the combination transactions, B&W transferred to RJR Tobacco, along with its U.S. operations, cash of $604 million, an amount equal to its pre closing accrued liabilities under the MSA and related agreements. RJR Tobacco and the U.S. cigarette and tobacco operations of B&W were combined in an indirect subsidiary of RAI, referred to as RJR Tobacco. The minimum working capital requirement, as defined in the combination transactions, was met and no additional cash was required. RJR Tobacco, and in certain instances, RAI, have agreed to indemnify B&W and its affiliates for, among other things, all liabilities arising before or after the closing that relate to B&Ws U.S. cigarette and tobacco business. These liabilities include B&Ws historic and future tobacco related litigation liabilities and all liabilities under the MSA and other state settlement agreements. B&W will indemnify RAI and its subsidiaries to the extent the pre closing MSA liabilities paid by RAI exceed, and RAI will indemnify B&W to the extent the pre closing MSA liabilities paid by RAI are less than, the cash amount contributed by B&W to RAI at closing. As part of the combination transactions, RAI paid $400 million in cash to acquire from an indirect subsidiary of BAT, all of the capital stock of Cigarette Manufacturers Supplies Inc., which owns all of the capital stock of Lane. Lane manufactures or distributes cigars, roll your own, cigarette and pipe tobacco brands, including DUNHILL and CAPTAIN BLACK tobacco products. BAT will retain the rights to use DUNHILL and other BAT trademarks outside the United States. As part of the combination transactions, RJR contributed all of the capital stock of Santa Fe to RAI in exchange for shares of Series B Preferred Stock of RAI. Upon completion of the combination transactions, Santa Fe became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of RAI. Both Santa Fe and Lane operate as independent subsidiaries of RAI. The headquarters and operations of each of RAI and RJR Tobacco are located in Winston Salem, North Carolina. 53 Table of Contents RAIs operating subsidiaries include RJR Tobacco, Santa Fe, Lane and GPI. RAIs single reportable operating segment, RJR Tobacco, is the second largest cigarette manufacturer in the United States. Santa Fe manufactures and markets cigarettes and other tobacco products under the NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT brand, primarily in the United States. Lane manufactures or distributes cigars, roll your own, cigarette and pipe tobacco brands. GPI manufactures and exports cigarettes to U.S. territories, U.S. Duty Free and overseas military and manages a contract manufacturing business. RAIs operating subsidiaries primarily conduct business in the highly competitive U.S. cigarette market, which has a few large manufacturers and many smaller participants. The U.S. cigarette market is believed to be a mature market, and overall consumer demand is expected to continue to decline over time. Trade inventory adjustments may result in short term changes in demand for RJR Tobaccos products if, and when, wholesale and retail tobacco distributors adjust the timing of their purchases of product to manage their inventory level. However, RJR Tobacco believes it is not appropriate for it to speculate on external factors that may impact the purchasing decision of the wholesale and retail tobacco distributors. Over time, competition between brands has been based primarily on brand positioning and price, as well as product attributes and packaging, consumer loyalty, promotions, advertising and retail presence. Cigarette brands produced by the major manufacturers generally require competitive pricing, substantial marketing support, retail programs and other incentives to maintain or improve a brands market position or to introduce a new brand. RAIs operating subsidiaries are committed to building and maintaining a portfolio of strong brands. RJR Tobaccos marketing programs are designed to strengthen brand image, build brand awareness and loyalty, and switch adult smokers of competing brands. RJR Tobacco has repositioned or introduced brand styles and line extensions designed to build each brands equity and attract adult smokers of competitive brands, but there can be no assurance that such efforts will be successful. In addition to building strong brand equity, RJR Tobaccos marketing approach utilizes a retail pricing strategy, including discounting at retail, to defend its brands shares of market against competitive pricing pressure. Competitive discounting has increased significantly as a result of higher state excise taxes and the growth of deep discount brands. Deep discount brands are brands manufactured by companies that are not original participants in the MSA, and accordingly, do not have cost structures burdened with MSA payments to the same extent as the original participating manufacturers. Starting in mid 2002, RJR Tobaccos largest competitor significantly increased promotional spending. These increases, together with the continued strength of the deep discount price tier of the market and the impact of substantially higher state excise taxes, resulted in an adverse business environment. To maintain competitive prices, RJR Tobacco increased its promotional spending. During the fourth quarter of 2002, RJR implemented a restructuring plan in an effort to streamline its cost structure and improve long term earnings. The restructuring plan included a workforce reduction, which was substantially completed in 2004, and the reclassification of certain non tobacco businesses as held for sale. In April 2003, in response to continuing challenges of an intensely competitive environment, RJR announced changes to RJR Tobaccos approach to the marketplace and its plan to realign the cost structures of RJR Tobacco and RJR. These initiatives included significant cost reductions and a new brand portfolio strategy focused on RJR Tobaccos two premium growth brands to optimize profitability, which resulted in restructuring and impairment charges during 2003 and 2004. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2003, RJR Tobacco transferred ownership of its merchandising fixtures to the cigarette retailers, which resulted in an impairment. For more information about these initiatives, related costs and savings, see Results of Operations. Since the business combination, RJR Tobacco has developed a new brand portfolio strategy, which took effect at the beginning of 2005. The new strategy establishes three categories of brands: investment, selective support and non support. The investment brands are CAMEL and KOOL, which will receive significant resources focused on accelerating their share of market growth. The selective support brands include two full price brands, WINSTON and SALEM, and two savings brands, DORAL and PALL MALL, and will receive 54 Table of Contents limited support in an effort to optimize profitability. The remaining non support brands will be managed to maximize short term profitability. Critical Accounting Policies Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America require estimates and assumptions to be made that affect the reported amounts in RAIs consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Some of these estimates require difficult, subjective and or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain, and as a result, actual results could differ from those estimates. Due to the estimation processes involved, the following summarized accounting policies and their application are considered to be critical to understanding the business operations, financial condition and results of operations of RAI and its subsidiaries. Purchase Accounting RAI accounts for business combination transactions in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, referred to as SFAS, No. 141, Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141 requires that RAI allocate the cost of the acquisition to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. Estimates of fair values for property, plant and equipment, trademarks and other identifiable intangibles are based on independent appraisals; pension and post retirement obligations are based on actuarial studies; and other accounts are based on managements best estimates using assumptions that are believed to be reasonable. In addition, depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortization of trademarks and other intangibles with finite lives, are directly related to estimated fair values and estimated useful lives determined as of the acquisition date. The determination of fair values involves considerable estimation and judgment. Among other things, it requires developing forecasts of cash flows and discount rates for trademarks and other intangibles; selecting appropriate valuation bases and methodologies for property, plant and equipment; determining appropriate actuarial assumptions for pensions and post retirement plans; and determining the number and timing of employees to be terminated or relocated and the associated costs. The value of goodwill and trademarks and other intangibles with indefinite lives will be subjected to annual impairment testing that could result in future impairment charges. Changes in the useful lives of property, plant and equipment, trademarks or other intangibles could impact depreciation or, in certain situations, impairment charges. For further information related to accounting of or the business combination, see note 1 to consolidated financial statements. Tobacco Related Litigation RAI and RJR Tobacco disclose information concerning tobacco related litigation for which an unfavorable outcome is more than remote. RJR Tobacco and its affiliates record their legal expenses and other litigation costs and related administrative costs as selling, general and administrative expenses as those costs are incurred. As discussed in note 13 to consolidated financial statements, RJR Tobacco and its affiliates have been named in a number of tobacco related legal actions, proceedings or claims seeking damages in amounts ranging into the hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars. Unfavorable judgments awarding compensatory damages, punitive damages and or fines have been returned against RJR Tobacco in the Engle class action case, reversed by the intermediate appellate court on May 21, 2003, the Scott class action case, a small number of individual smoking and health cases, a Broin II flight attendant ETS case and a California state law enforcement action. However, RJR Tobacco believes that it has numerous bases for successful appeals in its pending cases, and both RJR Tobacco and RAI believe they have a number of valid defenses to all actions and intend to defend all actions vigorously. RJR Tobacco expensed approximately $196,000 during 2003 for Kenyon v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., discussed in Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry in Item 1, and during 2004 RJR Tobacco accrued $9 million as a pre acquisition contingency related to the business combination for Boerner v. Brown & Williamson and $1 million for Eastman v. Brown & Williamson. However, RAIs management continues to conclude that the loss of any particular smoking and health tobacco litigation claim against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates, when viewed on an individual basis, is not 55 Table of Contents probable. Accordingly, no other liability for tobacco related litigation currently is recorded in RAIs consolidated financial statements. RAI and RJR Tobacco will record any loss related to tobacco litigation at such time as an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When the reasonable estimate is a range, the recorded loss will be the best estimate within the range. If no amount in the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount of the range will be recorded. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and it is possible that some of the tobacco related legal actions, proceedings or claims could ultimately be decided against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates, including RAI. Any unfavorable outcome of such actions could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of RAI or its subsidiaries. Settlement Agreements As discussed in Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry in Item 1 and note 13 to consolidated financial statements, RAIs operating subsidiaries are participants in the MSA and other state settlement agreements related to governmental health care cost recovery actions. Their obligations and the related expense charges under the MSA and other settlement agreements are subject to adjustments based upon, among other things, the volume of cigarettes sold by the operating subsidiaries, their relative market share and inflation. Since relative market share is based on cigarette shipments, the best estimate of the allocation of charges under these agreements is recorded in costs of products sold as the products are shipped. Settlement expenses under these MSA and other settlement agreements recorded in the accompanying consolidated statements of income were $2.2 billion in 2004, $1.9 billion in 2003 and $2.5 billion in 2002. RJR Tobacco estimates that its settlement charges will be approximately $2.5 billion in 2005, will exceed $2.5 billion in 2006 and will exceed $2.7 billion in 2007 and thereafter, subject to adjustments, including those discussed above. Adjustments to these estimates, which historically have not been significant, are recorded in the period that the change becomes probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Intangible Assets Intangible assets include goodwill, trademarks and other intangibles. Trademarks and other intangible assets are capitalized when acquired. As of January 1, 2002, RJR adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. See note 1 to consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the impact of the initial adoption of SFAS No. 142 on goodwill and trademarks and for additional impairment charges in connection with RAIs ongoing application of SFAS No. 142. RAI generally engages an independent appraisal firm to assist it in determining the fair value of its reporting units and trademarks. The determination of fair value involves considerable estimates and judgment. In particular, the fair value of a reporting unit involves, among other things, developing forecasts of future cash flows, determining an appropriate discount rate, and when goodwill impairment is implied, the determination of the fair values of individual assets and liabilities, including unrecorded intangibles. Although RAI believes it has based its impairment testing and impairment charges on reasonable estimates and assumptions, the use of different estimates and assumptions could result in materially different results. As a result of the competitive changes in the tobacco industry during 2003, and the business combination transactions in 2004, RJR and RAI initiated comprehensive changes in their strategies and cost structure. Management can not predict the impact that the current competitive environment and RAIs strategic initiatives may have on the fair value of goodwill, trademarks and other intangibles in future periods. Pension and Postretirement Benefits RAI sponsors a number of non contributory defined benefit pension plans covering most of the employees of RAI and its subsidiaries, and also provide certain health and life insurance benefits for retired employees and their dependents. These benefits are generally no longer provided to employees hired on or after January 1, 2004. 56 Table of Contents As part of the business combination transactions, RAI assumed certain pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the related assets of former B&W plans. The liability for the projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets was recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations. All previously existing unrecognized net gain or loss, unrecognized prior service cost, or unrecognized transition obligation or asset existing at the date of the business combination were eliminated. As a result of the business combination, the pension benefit obligation and pension assets increased by $1.9 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively and the postretirement benefit obligation and postretirement assets increased by $621 million and $312 million, respectively. Pension expense is determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, and SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. Postretirement benefit expense is determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. Because pension and other postretirement obligations will ultimately be settled in future periods, the determination of annual expense and liabilities is subject to estimates and assumptions. With the assistance of independent actuarial firms, RAI reviews these assumptions annually based on historic experience and expected future trends or coincidentally with a major event and modifies them as needed. Demographic assumptions such as termination of employment, mortality or retirement are reviewed periodically as expectations change. Gains or losses are annual changes in the amount of either the benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets resulting from experience different from that assumed or from changes in assumptions. The minimum amortization of unrecognized gains or losses, as described in SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, was included in pension expense. Prior service costs, which are changes in benefit obligations due to plan amendments, are amortized on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period for active employees. The market related value of plan assets excludes deferred asset gains of $151 million and recognizes changes in fair value in a systematic and rational manner over five years. If the market value of assets had been used to determine pension expense, the impact would have been a decrease to the 2004 costs of $24 million. Approximately $14 million is attributable to the expected return on asset component of expense and $10 million is due to the gain/loss amortization component. The most critical assumptions and their sensitivity to change are presented below: Assumptions: Pension Postretirement Benefits Benefits All Plans 2004 2004 2003 Weighted average assumption used to determine benefit obligations at December 31: Discount rate 6.05% 6.05% 6.15% Rate of compensation increase 4.77% 4.79% 5.00% Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for years ended December 31: Discount rate 6.15%/6.27% (1) 6.15%/6.45% (2) 6.40%/6.50% (3) Expected long term return on plan assets 8.79% 8.50% 9.00% Rate of compensation increase 4.77% 4.79% 5.00% (1) A discount rate of 6.15% was used for the period from January 1, 2004 to July 31, 2004, and a weighted average discount rate of 6.27% was used for the period from August 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004, to reflect the impact of the business combination. (2) A discount rate of 6.15% was used for the period from January 1, 2004 to July 31, 2004, and a weighted average discount rate of 6.45% was used for the period from August 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004, to reflect the impact of the business combination. (3) A discount rate of 6.40% was used for the period from January 1, 2003 to August 31, 2003, and adjusted to a discount rate of 6.50% for the period from September 1, 2003 to December 31, 2003, to reflect the impact of the 2003 restructuring plan. 57 Table of Contents The overall expected long term rate of return on assets assumptions for pension and postretirement assets are based on: (1) the target asset allocation for plan assets, (2) long term capital markets forecasts for asset classes employed, and (3) active management excess return expectations to the extent asset classes are actively managed. Assumption Sensitivity: Assumed asset return and discount rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the benefit plans. A one percentage point change in assumed discount rate for the pension plans and other postretirement plans would have the following effects: 1 Percentage Point 1 Percentage Point Increase Decrease Pensions Postretirement Pensions Postretirement Plans Plans Plans Plans Effect on net periodic benefit cost $ (9 ) $ (2 ) $ 7 $ 2 Effect on projected benefit obligation (495 ) (127 ) 564 144 A one percentage point change in assumed asset return would have the following effects: 1 Percentage Point 1 Percentage Point Increase Decrease Pensions Postretirement Pensions Postretirement Plans Plans Plans Plans Effect on net periodic benefit cost $ (28 ) $ (1 ) $ 28 $ 1 During 2002, actual asset returns for RJRs pension assets were adversely impacted by the continued deterioration of the equity markets and declining interest rates. Additionally, corporate bond yields, which are used in determining the discount rate for future pension obligations, continued to decline. The negative asset returns and declining discount rates unfavorably affected RJRs pension plans funded status. Pension expense in 2003 was adversely impacted due to these factors and the lowering of the expected return on asset assumption from 9.5% per annum for 2002 to 9.0% per annum for 2003. During 2003, plan assets increased $391 million, as a result of the favorable 2003 equity market performance, partially offset by benefit payments. Pension benefit obligations increased during 2003 greater than expected due to a decline in discount rates. However, at December 31, 2003, the pension benefit obligation of RJRs pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $750 million. During 2004, pension plan assets increased $1.9 billion, primarily due to the addition of $1.6 billion assets assumed in the business combination and as a result of the favorable 2004 equity market performance, partially offset by benefit payments. The pension benefit obligation increased $2.1 billion, primarily due to the addition of $1.9 billion for the former B&W plans and the decline in discount rates, partially offset by benefit payments. However, at December 31, 2004, the pension benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $956 million. During 2004, RAI assumed $312 million for postretirement plan assets in the business combination. The postretirement benefit obligation increased by $605 million, primarily due to the addition of $621 million for the former B&W plans, partially offset by benefit payments. At December 31, 2004, the postretirement benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $1.1 billion. RAI does not expect to pre fund any additional postretirement benefit obligations in the future. Pension expense in 2005 is expected to be within a range of $100 million to $115 million, compared with expense of $81 million in 2004, primarily due to the lower discount rate of 6.05%. Postretirement benefit expense in 2005 is expected to be within a range of $60 million to $75 million, compared with expense of $67 million in 2004, primarily due to the lower discount rate of 6.05%. The amount by which the pension benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the plan assets could increase to the extent of a decline in the fair value of plan assets, as well as adverse changes in actuarial assumptions, including a reduction in the discount rate used to calculate the pension benefit obligation. 58 Table of Contents RAI expects to contribute $208 million to its pension plans in 2005. Additional cash funding may be made in the future. RAI expects payments related to its postretirement plans to be $70 million in 2005. On December 8, 2003, President Bush signed into law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, referred to as the Act. The Act expanded Medicare to include, for the first time, coverage for prescription drugs. The Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under Medicare Part D as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. RAI sponsors retiree medical programs, which include coverage for prescription drugs. RJR deferred financial recognition of this legislation until 2004, which was permitted under FASB Staff Position FAS 106 1, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. In May 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, referred to as FSP 106 2. RAI adopted FSP 106 2 in the third quarter of 2004 and as a result, net postretirement health care costs were reduced approximately $4 million. The Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation was reduced approximately $82 million for the federal subsidy related to benefits attributed to past service. This includes $38 million for the former B&W plans that is reflected in the benefit obligation assumed in the business combination. As additional information becomes available regarding how to determine and collect the Medicare Part D subsidy, RAI will review and possibly update these amounts. Differences between actual results and actuarial assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods. In recent years, actual results have varied significantly from actuarial assumptions. In particular, pension plan assets have declined due to the overall decline in the capital markets, and pension and postretirement liabilities have increased as a result of the decline in the discount rate. These changes have resulted in charges to comprehensive income. These changes are expected to result in additional pension expense in future years and may also require additional cash funding of the pension obligations in the future. Additionally, postretirement expense is expected to decrease due to changes in plan benefits, partially offset by expected declines in the discount rate. Plan assets are invested using a combination of active and passive investment strategies. Active strategies employ multiple investment management firms. Managers within each asset class cover a range of investment styles and approaches and are combined in a way that controls for capitalization, style biases (equity investments), and interest rate bets (fixed income investments) against related benchmark indices, while focusing primarily on issue selection as a means to add value. Risk is controlled through diversification among asset classes, managers, styles and securities. Risk is further controlled both at the manager and asset class level by assigning excess return and tracking error targets. Investment managers are monitored to evaluate performance against these benchmark indices and targets. Allowable investment types include U.S. equity, non U.S. equity, fixed income, real estate, private equity investment and hedge funds. The U.S. equity fund is composed of common stocks of large, medium and small companies, which are predominantly U.S. based. The non U.S. equity fund includes equity securities issued by companies domiciled outside the U.S. and in depository receipts, which represent ownership of securities of non U.S. companies. The fixed income fund (debt securities) includes fixed income securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government, and to a lesser extent by non U.S. governments, or by their respective agencies and instrumentalities, mortgage backed securities, including collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate debt obligations and dollar denominated obligations issued in the United States by non U.S. banks and corporations (Yankee bonds). Up to 25% of the fixed income assets can be in debt securities that are below investment grade. Real estate includes publicly traded real estate investment trust securities. The hedge funds invest as a limited partner in portfolios of primarily public securities, including equities and fixed income. For pension assets, futures are used to equitize cash held by investment managers in order to approach fully invested portfolio positions. Otherwise, a small number of investment managers employ limited use of derivatives, including futures contracts, options on futures and interest rate swaps in place of direct investment in securities to gain efficient exposure to markets. Derivatives are not used to leverage portfolios. 59 Table of Contents The target pension asset allocation is 43% U.S. equity investments, 18% non U.S. equity investments, 26% fixed income investments, 8% hedge fund investments, 4% real estate and 1% other, with a rebalancing range of approximately plus or minus 5% around the target asset allocations. The target postretirement asset allocation is 43% U.S. equity investments, 17% non U.S. equity investments, 27% fixed income investments, 8% hedge fund investments and 5% real estate, with a rebalancing range of approximately plus or minus 5% around the target asset allocations. Subsequent to the business combination, RAI will review the target asset allocations with respect to the former B&W plan assets in combination with the RAI plan assets. RAIs pension plans weighted average asset allocations at December 31, 2004, and 2003, by asset category were as follows: Plan Assets at December 31, Pensions Postretirement Asset Category 2004 2003 2004 U.S. equity securities 44 % 46 % 43 % Non U.S. equity securities 20 % 22 % 17 % Debt securities 24 % 21 % 27 % Hedge funds 9 % 9 % 8 % Real estate 3 % 5 % Other 2 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges RJR and RJR Tobacco recorded charges related to workforce reductions, asset impairments and associated exit costs during 2003 and 2002. The workforce reduction charges were recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 112, Employers Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, and SFAS No. 88. The calculation of severance pay requires management to estimate the population of employees to be terminated and the timing of their severance from employment. The calculation of benefits charges requires actuarial assumptions including determination of discount rates. The asset impairments were recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which requires management to estimate the fair value of assets to be disposed. On January 1, 2003, RJR adopted SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit and Disposal Activities. Charges related to restructuring activities initiated after this date were recorded when incurred. Prior to this date, charges were recorded at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). During 2004, RJR Tobacco recorded restructuring accruals concerning the business combination, related to workforce reductions and exit costs. Accruals related to the business combination were recorded in accordance with EITF 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination. These restructuring charges were based on managements best estimate at the time of the restructuring. The status of the restructuring activities is reviewed on a quarterly basis and any adjustments to the reserve, which could differ materially from previous estimates, would be recorded as an adjustment to operating income. Merchandising Fixtures In response to changes in industry retail display, RJR Tobacco began replacing significant portions of its merchandising fixtures on an accelerated basis that resulted in accelerated amortization in the fourth quarter of 2002. During the second quarter of 2003, it became evident that the scope, extent and timing of 60 Table of Contents competitors similar replacement actions were lower than RJR Tobaccos original expectations. As a result, RJR Tobacco significantly reduced further replacement of its merchandising fixtures and ceased accelerated amortization. Amortization of merchandising fixtures during 2003 was $66 million, of which $21 million was accelerated amortization, compared with 2002 amortization expense of $96 million, of which $43 million was accelerated amortization. The change in estimate and resulting accelerated amortization adversely impacted net income $0.15 per basic and diluted share during 2003 and $0.29 per basic and diluted share during 2002. In response to marketplace activity, during the fourth quarter of 2003, RJR Tobacco changed its strategy related to replacement of merchandising fixtures and transferred its ownership to the cigarette retailers, resulting in an impairment charge of $106 million. RJR Tobacco no longer provides merchandising fixtures to cigarette retailers. Revenue Recognition Revenue from product sales is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. For RAIs operating subsidiaries, these criteria are generally met when title and risk of loss pass to the customer. Shipping and handling costs are classified as cost of products sold. Certain sales incentives, including coupons, buydowns and slotting allowances, are classified as reductions of net sales in accordance with EITF 01 9, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendors Products). With respect to estimated amounts of consideration that will be claimed by customers, costs are recognized at the latter of the date at which the related revenue is recognized or the date at which the sales incentive is offered. Given the nature of the business of RAIs operating subsidiaries, revenue recognition practices contain no significant estimates that could materially affect their results of operations. Accounting for Returned Goods During the second quarter of 2003, RJR Tobacco announced a revision of its policy related to returned goods. Previously, RJR Tobacco accepted all damaged and out of code date products. Under its revised policy, RJR Tobacco accepts only returns of unintentionally damaged products. During the second quarter of 2003, all retail returns other than unintentionally damaged products were suspended. Returns other than unintentionally damaged products shipped from wholesalers under the previous return policy were last accepted during the third quarter of 2003. Reflecting the results of the revised returned goods policy, the returned goods reserve was reduced $96 million and benefited net income $0.69 per basic and diluted share during the year ended December 31, 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2004, RJR Tobacco announced its intention to accept returned goods that will result directly from its new brand portfolio strategy. A returned goods accrual of $38 million was recorded for these expected returns, adversely impacting net income $0.21 per basic and diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2004. Income Taxes Tax law requires certain items to be included in taxable income at different times than as required for book reporting purposes under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income taxes. These differences may be permanent or temporary in nature. To the extent a book and tax difference is permanent in nature, that is, the financial treatment differs permanently from the tax treatment under SFAS No. 109, the tax effect of this item is reflected in RAIs effective income tax rate. RAI determines its annual effective income tax rate based on forecasted pre tax book income and forecasted permanent book and tax differences. The rate is established at the beginning of the year and it is evaluated on a quarterly basis. Any changes to the forecasted information or any resolution of an audit with taxing authorities may cause the effective rate to be adjusted. Any required adjustments are made on a prospective basis for the remaining quarters in the year. 61 Table of Contents To the extent that any book and tax differences are temporary in nature, that is, the book realization will occur in a different period than the tax realization, a deferred tax asset or liability is established as required under SFAS No. 109. To the extent that a deferred tax asset is created, management evaluates RAIs ability to realize this asset. Management currently believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent a deferred tax liability is established under SFAS No. 109, it is recorded, tracked and once it becomes currently due and payable, it is paid to the taxing authorities. During 2004 and 2003, RAI and RJR Tobacco reached agreements with the IRS for open items from prior years, resulting in the resolution of certain tax matters. These resolutions reduced income tax expense by $126 million and $169 million, respectively. During 2004 and 2003, favorable adjustments of $45 million and $121 million, respectively, were recorded to extraordinary gain; and a favorable adjustment of $106 million in 2003 was recorded to the gain on discontinued operations. The financial statements currently reflect managements best estimate of RAIs current and deferred tax liabilities and assets. Future events, including but not limited to, additional resolutions with taxing authorities could have an impact on RAIs current estimate of tax liabilities, realization of tax assets and upon RAIs effective income tax rate. Recent Accounting Developments In November 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4. This statement clarifies the accounting for abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted materials. Accounting Research Bulletin No. 43 allowed some of these costs to be carried as inventory, whereas the SFAS No. 151 requires these costs to be recognized in income as incurred. SFAS No. 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. RAI does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 151 to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets an amendment to APB Opinion No. 29. This statement requires exchanges of similar productive assets to now be accounted for at fair value, the basic principle for nonmonetary transactions, unless the exchange lacks commercial substance. SFAS No. 153 is effective for fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005, with earlier application permitted for such exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after December 16, 2004. RAI does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 153 to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Also in December 2004, the FASB issued two Staff Positions that provide accounting guidance for the effects of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 that was signed into law on October 22, 2004. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, states the manufacturers deduction provided for under this legislation should be accounted for as a special deduction instead of a tax rate change. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, allows additional time to evaluate the effects of the legislation for repatriation of foreign earnings. RAI has not yet determined the impact that adoption of these Staff Positions may have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. For further information regarding potential impacts, see note 11 to consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment. This statement is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. SFAS No. 123(R) addresses all forms of share based payments awards, including shares issued under employee stock purchase plans, stock options, restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. SFAS No. 123(R) is effective as of the beginning of the first interim period that begins after June 15, 2005. RAI does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows as all outstanding stock options are fully vested. For further information on stock plans, see note 16 to consolidated financial statements. 62 Table of Contents Results of Operations 2004 Compared with 2003 For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % Change Net sales (1) $ 6,437 $ 5,267 22.2 % Cost of products sold (1) (2) 3,872 3,218 20.3 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,455 1,327 9.6 % Amortization expense 24 Fixture impairment 106 Restructuring and impairment charges 5 368 NM (3) Goodwill and trademark impairment charges 199 4,089 NM (3) Operating income (loss) $ 882 $ (3,841 ) (1) Excludes excise taxes of $1,850 million and $1,572 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (2) Includes settlement expense of $2,183 million, after elimination of MSA Phase II growers liability of $69 million, and $1,934 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Includes federal tobacco buyout expense of $70 million during 2004. (3) Percent change is not meaningful. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2004, increased $1,170 million from the comparable prior year, primarily due to increased volume of $1,108 million, driven by the acquired operations and slightly higher pricing due to lower promotional spending. RAIs net sales are dependent upon its shipment volume in a declining market, full price versus savings brand mix, and list pricing, offset by promotional spending, trade incentives and federal excise taxes. Domestic cigarette shipment volume, in billions of units, for RAIs operating segments including acquired operations since July 30, 2004, shown in the 2005 brand designations, were as follows: For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2004 2003 % Change RJR Tobacco investment brands: CAMEL excluding Regular 21.6 20.0 8.1 % KOOL 4.9 NM RJR Tobacco selective support brands: DORAL 18.3 21.2 (13.8 )% WINSTON 14.8 15.7 (5.5 )% SALEM 8.9 9.3 (4.6 )% PALL MALL Savings 2.5 NM RJR Tobacco non support brands 20.6 13.8 49.3 % RJR Tobacco total full price 57.0 49.7 14.5 % RJR Tobacco total savings 34.6 30.3 14.5 % RJR Tobacco total domestic 91.6 80.0 14.5 % Other 2.4 2.3 7.5 % RAI total domestic 94.0 82.3 14.3 % Industry (1): Full price 274.4 276.1 (0.6 )% Savings 119.5 125.2 (4.5 )% Industry total domestic 393.9 401.3 (1.8 )% (1) Based on information from MSAi. These amounts, including the restatement of prior periods, reflect revised methodology adopted to better estimate industry volume. 63 Table of Contents RJR Tobaccos full year total domestic shipment volume increased 14.5% reflecting the impact of the business combination offset in part by the underlying declines in consumption, or retail sales to consumers. Shipments in the full priced tier remained at 62.2% of RJR Tobaccos total domestic shipments during each of 2004 and 2003. Industry full price shipments as a percentage of total domestic shipments increased to 69.7% in 2004 from 68.8% in 2003. The shares of U.S. retail cigarette sales of RJR Tobacco are presented as if the portfolio had been combined as of the beginning of the periods. The shares of RJR Tobacco as a percentage of total share of U.S. retail cigarette sales according to data(1) from IRI were: For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, Share Point 2004 2003 Change RJR Tobacco investment brands: CAMEL excluding Regular 6.28 % 5.94 % 0.34 KOOL 2.80 % 2.86 % (0.06 ) RJR Tobacco selective support brands: DORAL 4.98 % 5.54 % (0.56 ) WINSTON 4.16 % 4.49 % (0.33 ) SALEM 2.59 % 2.54 % 0.05 PALL MALL Savings 1.49 % 1.15 % 0.34 RJR Tobacco non support brands 8.52 % 9.57 % (1.05 ) RJR Tobacco total domestic 30.82 % 32.09 % (1.27 ) (1) Retail share of U.S. cigarette sales data is included in this document because it is used by RJR Tobacco primarily as an indicator of the relative performance of industry participants and brands and market trends. You should not rely on the market share data reported by IRI as being a precise measurement of actual market share because IRI is not able to effectively track all volume. Moreover, you should be aware that in a product market experiencing overall declining consumption, a particular product can experience increasing market share relative to competing products, yet still be subject to declining consumption volumes. During 2004, CAMELs filtered styles continued to grow based on the strength of the brands equity, driven by its Pleasure to Burn positioning. Initiatives launched in prior years to actively market CAMELs three distinct product families Classic, Turkish and Exotic Blends also contributed to the brands performance in 2004. KOOLs 2001 repositioning has maintained its appeal among adult menthol smokers and provides potential for future growth. KOOL experienced some softness during mid year 2004 due to increased competition in the menthol category, but improved its performance in the fourth quarter, and its share was relatively stable for the full year. The combined share of market on the investment brands during 2004 showed improvement over 2003. However, the decline in share of selective support and non support brands more than offset the gains on the investment brands. This decline was partially driven by RJR Tobaccos strategic shifts in 2003 on WINSTON, DORAL and private label brands. SALEMs share was relatively stable in 2004, reflecting results of its 2003 repositioning, and PALL MALL savings has increased share attributable to increased consumer acceptance and its savings brand price position. RJR Tobaccos full price share position of 18.6% of the market in 2004 declined 0.40 share points from 2003. RJR Tobaccos savings share position of 12.2% of the market in 2004 declined 0.87 share points from 2003. Cost of products sold increased $654 million from 2003 primarily due to acquired operations. MSA expenses were $2.2 billion in 2004, after elimination of MSA Phase II growers liability of $69 million, and are 64 Table of Contents expected to be approximately $2.5 billion in 2005, subject to adjustment for changes in volume and other factors. In addition, the 2004 cost of products sold included $70 million related to the federal tobacco quota buyout legislation, which is expected to be approximately $270 million in 2005. For more information related to the MSA, see note 13 to consolidated financial statements, and for more information related to the tobacco quota buyout legislation, see Governmental Activity and note 13 to consolidated financial statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,455 million during 2004 increased $128 million, compared with 2003, primarily due to additional costs related to acquired operations, integration costs, $33 million growers settlement and $17 million related to a California settlement. These increases were partially offset by lower overall marketing expense, the elimination of fixture amortization and lower legal expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses include the costs of litigating and administering product liability claims, as well as other legal expenses. During 2004 and 2003, RJR Tobaccos product liability defense costs were $115 million and $144 million, respectively. The decrease in product liability defense costs in 2004 compared with 2003 was primarily due to a decrease in the level of activity in cases in preparation for trial, in trial and on appeal in 2004 compared with 2003. Product liability cases generally include smoking and health related cases. In particular, these cases include the following categories of cases listed in the table set forth in Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry Overview in note 13 to consolidated financial statements: Individual Smoking and Health; Flight Attendant ETS (Broin II); Class Actions; Governmental Health Care Cost Recovery; Other Health Care Cost Recovery and Aggregated Claims; MSA Enforcement and Validity; Asbestos Contribution; and Antitrust cases. Product liability defense costs include the following items: direct and indirect compensation, fees and related costs and expenses for internal legal and related administrative staff administering product liability claims; fees and cost reimbursements paid to outside attorneys; direct and indirect payments to third party vendors for litigation support activities; expert witness costs and fees; and payments to the Council for Tobacco Research U.S.A., Inc. which funds are used primarily by the CTR to fund its legal defense costs. Numerous factors affect the amount of product liability defense costs. The most important factors are the number of cases pending and the number of cases in trial or in preparation for trial (i.e., with active discovery and motions practice). See Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry Overview in note 13 to consolidated financial statements for detailed information regarding the number and type of cases pending, and Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry Scheduled Trials in note 13 to consolidated financial statements for detailed information regarding the number and nature of cases in trial and scheduled for trial through the end of 2005. RJR Tobacco expects that the factors described above will continue to have the primary impact on its product liability defense costs in the future. Given the level of activity in cases in preparation for trial, in trial 65 Table of Contents and on appeal and the amount of product liability defense costs incurred by RJR Tobacco over the past three years, RJR Tobaccos recent experiences in defending its product liability cases and the reasonably anticipated level of activity in RJR Tobaccos pending cases and possible new cases, RJR Tobacco does not expect that the variances in its product liability defense costs will be significantly different than they have been historically. However, it is possible that adverse developments in the factors discussed above, as well as other circumstances beyond the control of RJR Tobacco, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of RAI or its subsidiaries. Those other circumstances beyond the control of RJR Tobacco include the results of present and future trials and appeals, and the development of possible new theories of liability by plaintiffs and their counsel. Amortization expense of $24 million in 2004 includes $18 million relating to the acquired intangibles for contract manufacturing, customer contracts, consumer database and patents and $6 million trademark amortization relating to several definite lived, non support brands. For additional information, see note 2 to consolidated financial statements. Fixture impairment charges of $106 million in 2003 were non cash charges related to transfer of ownership of RJR Tobaccos retail merchandising fixtures to cigarette retailers and reflect the elimination of the carrying value of the fixtures. As a result of this transfer, no further amortization is required. During 2003, amortization related to the fixtures was $66 million. Restructuring and impairment charge adjustments resulted in net additional charges of $38 million relating to the 2002 restructuring partially offset by net reversals of $33 million relating to the 2003 restructuring. The components of the 2003 restructuring and impairment charges, recorded and utilized were: Employee Contract Severance Asset Termination/ and Benefits Impairment Exit Costs Total Original charge $ 292 $ 28 $ 53 $ 373 Utilized in 2003 (92 ) (28 ) (52 ) (172 ) Balance, December 31, 2003 200 1 201 Incurred in 2004 1 1 Utilized in 2004 (91 ) (2 ) (93 ) Adjusted in 2004 (34 ) (34 ) Balance, December 31, 2004 $ 75 $ $ $ 75 During 2003, in response to continuing challenges of an intensely competitive environment, RJR and RJR Tobacco incurred restructuring and asset impairment charges of $373 million, or $225 million after tax. Of these charges, RJR Tobacco incurred $287 million related to severance and benefits, $28 million related to asset impairments, primarily reflecting abandonment of certain merchandising fixtures not yet shipped to retailers, and $34 million related to professional fees for valuation and consulting services, as well as the discontinuation of certain event marketing programs and other associated exit costs. The remaining $24 million was incurred by RJR. After examining the results of a pilot program during the first quarter of 2004, RJR Tobacco decided that approximately 750 sales positions that were expected to be outsourced as part of the 2003 restructuring plan would not be eliminated. Accordingly, associated severance and related benefits of $7 million, or $4 million after tax, was reversed from the restructuring charge during the first quarter of 2004. During the remainder of 2004, $27 million, or $16 million after tax, was reversed from the severance portion of the restructuring charge, reflecting less than expected workforce reductions, primarily in manufacturing and sales. After the adjustments during 2004, the workforce reduction will be approximately 22%, or approximately 1,680 full time employees, in operations and corporate functions. The workforce reduction was substantially completed during the fourth quarter of 2004. The remaining accrual represents severance that will be paid through 2007. 66 Table of Contents The cash portion of the restructuring and asset impairment charges to date is approximately $225 million, of which $171 million relates to employee severance costs and $54 million relates to exit costs. As of December 31, 2004, $150 million of this amount had been paid. Of the $115 million non cash portion of the charges, $87 million related to benefit charges and $28 million related to asset impairments. In the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, $59 million is included in other current liabilities and $16 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities. No significant additional charges are expected to be incurred in connection with the 2003 restructuring plans. Cost savings related to the 2003 restructuring charges were $202 million during 2004, and are expected to be $254 million in 2005 and $259 million on an annualized basis thereafter. The components of the 2002 restructuring and impairment charges, recorded and utilized were: Employee Contract Severance Asset Termination/ and Benefits Impairment Exit Costs Total Original charge $ 102 $ 115 $ 7 $ 224 Utilized in 2002 (44 ) (115 ) (2 ) (161 ) Balance, December 31, 2002 58 5 63 Utilized in 2003 (27 ) (27 ) Adjusted in 2003 (2 ) (3 ) (5 ) Balance, December 31, 2003 29 2 31 Incurred in 2004 40 40 Utilized in 2004 (23 ) (40 ) (63 ) Adjusted in 2004 (2 ) (2 ) Balance, December 31, 2004 $ 4 $ $ 2 $ 6 In the fourth quarter of 2002, RJR Tobacco recorded a pre tax restructuring charge of $224 million, $135 million after tax, in response to changing competitive practices within the tobacco industry during the second half of 2002. During the first quarter of 2004, RJR Tobacco reversed $2 million for employee severance and benefits, due to less than expected workforce reductions. As adjusted, the employee severance and benefits relate to approximately 500 full time workforce reductions in operations support and corporate functions, which were substantially completed as of December 31, 2004. The asset impairment resulted from the remeasurement of the non tobacco businesses at the lower of their carrying value or fair value less cost to sell. Based on the results of on going negotiations in the fourth quarter that culminated in a letter of intent, a revaluation of the fair value of the non tobacco businesses in the fourth quarter of 2004 resulted in additional impairment of $40 million. The non tobacco businesses are classified as assets held for sale and liabilities related to assets held for sale in the consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. As of December 31, 2004, the carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities in the disposal group included $14 million of accounts receivable, $31 million of inventories, $7 million of property, plant and equipment and other, and $11 million of accounts payable and accrued liabilities. As of December 31, 2003, the carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities in the disposal group included $13 million of accounts receivable, $31 million of inventories, $40 million of property, plant and equipment and other, and $10 million of accounts payable and accrued liabilities. RJR Tobacco completed the sale of one of the non tobacco businesses in the second quarter of 2003, and RJR Tobacco expects to complete the sale of the remaining business during the first half of 2005. Contract termination and exit costs included certain contract terminations and lease terminations of 15 sales offices. Exit costs also included the separation of the non tobacco businesses held for sale. During the 67 Table of Contents fourth quarter of 2003, $5 million of the charge was reversed, reflecting less than expected workforce reductions and exit costs of field sales offices. The cash portion of the 2002 restructuring and asset impairment charges is expected to be $56 million and primarily relates to employee severance costs. As of December 31, 2004, $50 million of this amount had been paid. The $201 million non cash portion included $44 million related to employee benefits, $155 million related to asset impairments and $2 million related to the write off of prepaid promotional rights that were terminated. In the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2004, $5 million is included in other current liabilities and $1 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities. Cost savings related to the 2002 restructuring charges were $59 million during 2004 and are expected to be $60 million on an annualized basis. Goodwill and trademark impairment charges of $199 million were incurred in 2004 compared with $4,089 million incurred during 2003. In connection with the annual impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2004, impairment occurred on five of RJR Tobaccos non investment brands, primarily WINSTON, SALEM and DORAL. The impairment primarily reflects RJR Tobaccos decision in the fourth quarter of 2004, in conjunction with the implementation of the brand strategies resulting from the business combination, to limit investment in these brands in an effort to optimize profitability. Accordingly, RJR Tobacco recorded impairment charges of $199 million, or $120 million after tax, based on the excess of the brands carrying values over their fair values, determined using the present value of estimated future cash flows assuming a discount rate of 11.0%. The discount rate was determined by adjusting the RJR Tobacco enterprise discount rate by an appropriate risk premium to reflect an asset group risk. These impairment charges are reflected as decreases in the carrying value of the trademarks in the consolidated balance sheets, as goodwill and trademark impairment charges in the 2004 consolidated income statement and had no impact on cash flows. In addition, the extent of the sales decline projected for certain brands that will no longer receive marketing support indicated that a definite life is probable. As a result, the carrying values of these brands are being amortized over their remaining lives, which range from 5 to 11 years. In 2003, in response to competitive changes in the tobacco industry, RJR Tobacco initiated comprehensive changes in its strategies and cost structure that resulted in a restructuring primarily during the third quarter of 2003. In conjunction with these events, RJR Tobacco tested its trademarks and goodwill for impairment. The trademark impairment testing indicated that impairment occurred on certain of RJR Tobaccos brands, primarily WINSTON and DORAL, reflecting RJR Tobaccos decision in the third quarter of 2003 to limit investment in these brands in an effort to optimize profitability. Accordingly, RJR Tobacco recorded an impairment charge of $326 million, or $197 million after tax, in the third quarter of 2003. This charge was based on the excess of the brands carrying values over their estimated fair values, determined using the present value of estimated future cash flows assuming a discount rate of 10.5%. The discount rate was determined by adjusting the RJR Tobacco enterprise discount rate by an appropriate risk premium to reflect an asset group risk. This impairment charge was included in goodwill and trademark impairment charges in the consolidated statements of income, as a decrease in the carrying value of trademarks in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2003, and had no impact on cash flows. For the purpose of testing goodwill, the fair value of RJR Tobacco was determined by an independent appraisal firm, based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows of the reporting unit assuming a discount rate of 10.0%. The determination of this discount rate was based on a weighted average cost of capital using a risk free rate adjusted by a stock beta adjusted risk premium. The valuation, in accordance with SFAS No. 142, indicated that the carrying value of RJR Tobacco exceeded its implied fair value. Preliminary estimated fair values were assigned to RJR Tobaccos assets and liabilities to estimate the implied fair value of RJR Tobaccos goodwill. As a result, the carrying amount of the goodwill of RJR Tobacco exceeded its implied fair value by $3.3 billion, and an impairment charge equal to that estimated excess was recognized in the third quarter of 2003. During the fourth quarter of 2003, RJR Tobacco completed its impairment measurement and recorded an additional $0.5 billion charge. These impairment charges were included in goodwill and trademark impairment charges in the consolidated income statements, as a decrease in the carrying value of goodwill in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2003, and had no impact on cash flows. 68 Table of Contents Interest and debt expense was $85 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, a decrease of $26 million from 2003. This decrease is primarily due to the repayment of $550 million and $191 million in debt in the second and third quarters of 2003, respectively. Other (income) expense, net was $2 million income in 2004 compared with $5 million in 2003. The decrease was primarily due to proceeds from a lease termination in 2003 of $10 million. Partially offsetting this decrease were improved earnings from the R. J. Reynolds Gallaher International Sarl joint venture. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes was a provision of $202 million, or an effective rate of 24.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared with a benefit of $229 million, or an effective rate of 5.8%, in 2003. The 2004 provision was impacted mainly by the resolution of certain prior years tax matters that resulted in a reduction of income tax expense of $126 million, offset in part by state tax and certain non deductible items. The 2003 benefit included $169 million from a favorable resolution of prior years tax matters, offset primarily by the effect of non deductible goodwill impairment. RAI expects its effective tax rate to approximate 38.5% in 2005. A favorable impact on the 2005 effective tax rate is expected due to legislative provisions that allow for a deduction relating to taxable income from qualified production activities. The amount of favorable impact may vary based on transition rules and the future income mix. Discontinued operations reflect transactions related to the 1999 sale of the international tobacco business to JTI. During 2004 and 2003, these transactions included $12 million and $16 million, respectively, of after tax reversals of indemnification accruals. During 2003, these transactions also included $106 million related to favorable resolution of tax matters. Including these adjustments, the net after tax gain on the sale of the international tobacco business was $2.5 billion. Extraordinary items included a gain of $49 million in 2004 and $121 million in 2003 related to the 2000 acquisition of RJRs former parent, NGH, primarily from settlement of tax matters. Including these adjustments, the net after tax gain on the acquisition was $1.6 billion. 2003 Compared with 2002 For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2003 2002 % Change Net sales (1) $ 5,267 $ 6,211 (15.2 )% Cost of products sold (1) (2) 3,218 3,732 (13.8 )% Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,327 1,463 (9.3 )% Fixture impairment 106 Restructuring and impairment charges 368 224 64.3 % Goodwill and trademark impairment charges 4,089 13 Operating income (loss) $ (3,841 ) $ 779 (1) Excludes excise taxes of $1,572 million and $1,751 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (2) Includes settlement expense of $1,934 million and $2,514 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2003 decreased $944 million from the comparable prior year due to $989 million lower overall volume and $113 million increased promotional spending, net of higher pricing, partially offset by a benefit of $96 million related to RJR Tobaccos change in returned goods policy. RJRs net sales are dependent upon its shipment volume in a declining market, full price versus savings brand mix, and list pricing, offset by promotional spending, trade incentives and federal excise taxes. 69 Table of Contents Shipment volume in the domestic category for RJRs operating segments, in billions of units, included: For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, % 2003 2002 Change RJR Tobacco key brands: CAMEL excluding Regular 20.0 22.1 (9.5 )% SALEM 9.3 9.5 (1.6 )% Base WINSTON 15.5 17.9 (13.5 )% DORAL 21.2 24.6 (13.7 )% RJR Tobacco total full price 49.7 55.5 (10.3 )% RJR Tobacco total savings 30.3 35.1 (13.8 )% RJR Tobacco total domestic (1) 80.0 90.6 (11.7 )% Santa Fe total domestic 1.2 1.0 12.5 % RJR total domestic (1) 81.2 91.6 (11.4 )% Industry (2): Full price 274.5 284.8 (3.6 )% Savings 96.9 106.6 (9.2 )% Industry total domestic 371.4 391.4 (5.1 )% (1) Excludes Puerto Rico and certain other U.S. territories volume. (2) The source of industry data is MSAi as originally reported. These data may not include all shipments of some manufacturers that MSAi was unable to monitor effectively. RJR Tobacco believes that the industry total domestic shipment volume may not have fully included deep discount volume. MSAi subsequently utilizes a revised methodology adopted to better estimate industry volume. RJR Tobaccos full year total domestic shipment volume declined 11.7% due to underlying declines in consumption, or retail sales to consumers, and shifts in trade inventory levels. Shipments in the full priced tier increased to 62.2% of RJR Tobaccos total domestic shipments during 2003 as compared with 61.2% in 2002. Industry full price shipments as a percentage of total domestic shipments increased to 73.9% in 2003 from 72.8% in 2002. Retail share of market as a percentage of total retail sales of RJRs operating segments according to data from IRI were: For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, Share Point 2003 2002 Change RJR Tobacco key brands: CAMEL excluding Regular 5.94 % 5.69 % 0.25 SALEM 2.54 % 2.41 % 0.13 Base WINSTON 4.42 % 4.57 % (0.15 ) DORAL 5.54 % 5.86 % (0.32 ) RJR Tobacco total domestic 22.52 % 22.93 % (0.41 ) Santa Fe total domestic 0.29 % 0.26 % 0.03 In 2003, RJR Tobaccos full price share position of 14.24% of the market, was relatively level with 2002 at 14.20%. Full price share performance was based on the growth of RJR Tobaccos focus brands CAMEL and SALEM, which posted a combined full year gain of 0.38 share points more than offsetting declines in other full price brands. 70 Table of Contents In 2003, CAMELs filtered styles posted a gain of 0.25 share points, on the strength of CAMELs Classic and Turkish families. SALEM has shown steady momentum since its Stir the Senses re launch in April 2003, gaining 0.38 share points since the first quarter through the fourth quarter of 2003. SALEM has posted increases in both its Green Label and Black Label styles, with growth coming from competitive switching and increased franchise loyalty. Base WINSTON and DORAL retail share of market declined in 2003, reflecting competitive pricing pressures on their price sensitive, adult, franchise smokers. Santa Fes NATURAL AMERICAN SPIRIT brand delivered higher volume, share and profits in 2003 compared to 2002. Cost of products sold decreased $514 million from 2002 primarily due to $580 million lower MSA costs, and to a much lesser extent, lower promotional product and volume related manufacturing costs, partially offset by the adverse impact of LIFO expense of $69 million. MSA expenses were $1.9 billion in 2003. For more information related to the MSA, see note 13 to consolidated financial statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,327 million during 2003 decreased $136 million, compared with 2002, primarily due to lower overall marketing expense. The decrease in marketing expense, net of an $80 million increase in advertising expense, was the result of the strategic marketing changes initiated during 2003. The decreases in SG&A were partially offset by $14 million fixed general expense, including higher special compensation and benefits and higher selling, general and administrative expenses of entities acquired in 2002, partially offset by lower legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include the costs of litigating and administering product liability claims, as well as other legal expenses. During 2003 and 2002, RJR Tobaccos product liability defense costs were $144 million and $192 million, respectively. The decrease in product liability defense costs was primarily due to a decrease in the level of activity in cases in preparation for trial, in trial and on appeal in 2003 compared with 2002. Fixture impairment charges of $106 million in 2003 were recorded in the fourth quarter of 2003. These non cash charges related to transfer of ownership of RJR Tobaccos retail merchandising fixtures to cigarette retailers and reflect the elimination of the carrying value of the fixtures. As a result of this transfer, no further amortization is required. During 2003 and 2002, amortization related to the fixtures was $66 million and $96 million, respectively. Restructuring and impairment charges of $368 million, or $224 million after tax, and $224 million, or $135 million after tax, were recorded during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Goodwill and trademark impairment charges of $4,089 million were incurred during 2003. In response to competitive changes in the tobacco industry, RJR Tobacco initiated comprehensive changes in its strategies and cost structure that resulted in a restructuring primarily during the third quarter of 2003. In conjunction with these events, RJR Tobacco tested its trademarks and goodwill for impairment. The trademark impairment testing indicated that impairment occurred on certain of RJR Tobaccos brands, reflecting RJR Tobaccos decision in the third quarter of 2003 to limit investment in these brands in an effort to optimize profitability. Accordingly, RJR Tobacco recorded an impairment charge of $326 million, $197 million after tax, in the third quarter of 2003. For the purpose of testing goodwill, the valuation, in accordance with SFAS No. 142, indicated that the carrying value of RJR Tobacco exceeded its implied fair value. Estimated fair values were assigned to RJR Tobaccos assets and liabilities to estimate the implied fair value of RJR Tobaccos goodwill. As a result, the carrying amount of the goodwill of RJR Tobacco exceeded its implied fair value by $3.8 billion, and an impairment charge equal to that excess was recognized in 2003. Interest and debt expense was $111 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, a decrease of $36 million from 2002. This decrease is primarily due to the repayment of $741 million in debt in 2003, and to a lesser extent, lower interest rates in 2003. 71 Table of Contents Interest income decreased $33 million in 2003 compared with the prior year due to a lower average cash balance combined with lower interest rates. Other (income) expense, net included $5 million of income in 2003 compared with $11 million of expense in the prior year period. The change was primarily due to $10 million in proceeds from a lease termination in the first quarter of 2003. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes was a benefit of $229 million, or an effective rate of 5.8%, for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared with a provision of $265 million, or an effective rate of 38.8%, in 2002. The 2003 benefit included $169 million from a favorable resolution of prior years tax matters; however, the effective rate was offset primarily by non deductible goodwill impairment. The effective tax rate in 2002 exceeded the federal statutory rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of state taxes and, to a lesser extent, certain non deductible items. Discontinued operations reflect transactions related to the 1999 sale of the international tobacco business to JTI. During 2003, these transactions included a $106 million favorable resolution of tax matters. During 2003 and 2002, these transactions included $16 million and $40 million, respectively, of after tax reversals of indemnification accruals. Including these adjustments, the net after tax gain on the sale of the international tobacco business was $2.5 billion. Extraordinary items included a gain of $121 million related to the favorable resolution of tax matters related to the acquisition of NGH in 2000. Including this adjustment, the net after tax gain on the acquisition was $1.6 billion. Liquidity and Financial Condition Liquidity At present, the principal sources of liquidity for RAIs operating subsidiaries business and operating needs are internally generated funds from their operations and borrowings through RJR. Cash flows from operating activities are believed to be sufficient for the foreseeable future to enable the operating subsidiaries to meet their obligations under the MSA, to fund their capital expenditures and to make payments to RJR that, when combined with RJRs cash balance, will enable RJR to make its required debt service payments and to fund RAI to enable it to pay dividends to its shareholders. The negative impact, if any, on the sources of liquidity that could result from a decrease in demand for products due to short term inventory adjustments by wholesale and retail distributors, changes in competitive pricing, or accelerated declines in consumption, cannot be predicted. RAI cannot predict its cash requirements or those of its subsidiaries related to any future settlements or judgments, including cash required to be held in escrow or to bond any appeals, if necessary, and RAI makes no assurance that it or its subsidiaries will be able to meet all of those requirements. Contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004 were: Payments Due by Period Less than 1 3 4 5 Total 1 Year Years Years Thereafter Long term debt, exclusive of interest (1) $ 1,584 $ 50 $ 828 $ 199 $ 507 Interest payments related to long term debt (1) 332 84 111 71 66 Operating leases (2) 117 34 38 16 29 Non qualified pension obligations (3) 41 6 12 11 12 Postretirement benefit obligations (3) 789 74 147 145 423 Service agreement (4) 6 4 2 Purchase obligations (5) 1,458 239 412 321 486 MSA and other state settlement obligations (6) 13,000 2,600 5,000 5,400 Federal tobacco buyout obligations (7) 2,400 340 540 540 980 Total cash obligations $ 19,727 $ 3,431 $ 7,090 $ 6,703 $ 2,503 72 Table of Contents (1) For more information about RJRs long term debt, see Debt below and note 12 to consolidated financial statements. (2) Operating lease obligations represent estimated lease payments primarily related to office space, automobiles, warehouse space and computer equipment, see note 20 to consolidated financial statements. (3) For more information about RAIs pension plans and postretirement benefits, see note 17 to consolidated financial statements. Non qualified pension and postretirement benefit obligations captioned under Thereafter include obligations during the next five years only. These obligations are not reasonably estimable beyond ten years. (4) A service agreement related to the joint venture with Gallaher Group Plc provides for annual payments denominated in Great British pounds. For more information about the related joint venture, see note 14 to consolidated financial statements. (5) Purchase obligations include commitments to acquire tobacco leaf, leaf processing, media services, capital expenditures and software maintenance. The major component of the purchase obligations, although not believed to be incremental to previously anticipated leaf purchase needs, is the estimated value of the commitment to purchase leaf as a part of the settlement agreement reached in the DeLoach antitrust case, see note 13 to consolidated financial statements. (6) These obligations are not reasonably estimable beyond five years. For more information about RJR Tobaccos settlement payments, see Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry in Item 1 and note 13 to consolidated financial statements. (7) For more information about the tobacco buyout legislation, see Governmental Activity below and note 13 to consolidated financial statements. Commitments as of December 31, 2004 were: Commitment Expiration Period Less than 1 3 Total 1 Year Years Standby letters of credit backed by revolving credit facility $ 29 $ 28 $ 1 Total commitments $ 29 $ 28 $ 1 Cash Flows Net cash flows from operating activities of $736 million in 2004 increased $155 million from 2003. This change is primarily due to higher net income, partially offset by the cash utilization of restructuring charges and funding of retirement benefits during 2004. Net cash flows from operating activities increased $92 million to $581 million in 2003, when compared with 2002. This change primarily reflects benefits related to income taxes and lower MSA tobacco settlement expenses partially offset by decreased revenues due primarily to decreased volume, and to a lesser extent, increased promotional expenses. The net cash flows from investing activities for 2003 and 2002 were adjusted to reflect the reclassification of auction rate notes from cash equivalents to short term investments in the consolidated balance sheets. Net cash flows from investing activities were $260 million in 2004 compared with $641 million in 2003. This change is primarily due to the 2003 higher net proceeds from the sales of short term investments and the liquidation of a trust which effectively defeased subordinated debentures that were acquired with NGH in 2000 and the net cash proceeds acquired in the 2004 business combination. Net cash flows from investing activities were $641 million in 2003 compared with a use of $901 million in 2002. Net cash flows from investing activities during 2003 included net proceeds from the sale of short term investments and the liquidation of a trust. Net cash flows used in investing activities during 2002 included the net purchases of short term investments, the 2002 acquisition of Santa Fe, net of cash acquired, and increased capital expenditures related to equipment replacements. Net cash flows used in financing activities were $467 million in 2004 compared with $1,122 million in 2003. This change is primarily due to the use of $741 million to repay notes that matured in 2003. Net cash flows used in financing activities were $1,122 million in 2003 compared with a use of $105 million in 2002. 73 Table of Contents This reduction is primarily due to the use of $741 million to repay notes that matured in 2003, compared with the $745 million cash proceeds provided from the issuance of notes in May 2002. This change is combined with decreased proceeds from the exercise of stock options and partially offset by the $436 million decrease in the repurchase of common stock. Stock Repurchases From January through July 2004, at a cost of $28 million, RJR repurchased, and returned to treasury stock, 411,135 shares that were forfeited with respect to tax liability associated with certain option exercises and restricted stock vesting under its 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan, referred to as the 1999 LTIP. Shares held by RJR through repurchase, in addition to shares forfeited pursuant to employee stock plans, were included in treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheets prior to July 30, 2004. Due to RAIs incorporation in North Carolina, concurrent with the completion of the business combination transactions, treasury shares held by RJR were cancelled. RAI has continued to repurchase and cancel shares forfeited with respect to the tax liability associated with certain option exercises under the RAI Long Term Incentive Plan, as successor plan to the 1999 LTIP. Additionally, to maintain B&Ws ownership level of 42%, RAI is required to repurchase and cancel shares, dependent upon certain stock issuances through September 2005. From August through December 2004, RAI repurchased 607,642 shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of $43 million. Dividends On February 2, 2005, RAIs board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.95 per common share. The dividend will be paid on April 1, 2005 to shareholders of record as of March 10, 2005. On an annualized basis, the dividend rate is $3.80 per common share. Capital Expenditures RJR Tobaccos capital expenditures were $92 million, $70 million and $111 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in 2004 reflects $23 million of capital expenditures that were incurred to integrate the operations of RJR Tobacco and the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W. The expenditures in 2002 included increased equipment replacements. RJR Tobacco plans to spend $120 million to $130 million for capital expenditures during 2005, funded primarily by cash flows from operations. This increase in 2005 is primarily due to merger related integration projects. RJR Tobaccos capital expenditure program is expected to continue at a level sufficient to support its strategic and operating needs. There were no material long term commitments for capital expenditures as of December 31, 2004. Debt RJRs revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks was amended and restated on July 30, 2004, and has a committed amount of $486 million through January 2007, provided that the guaranteed, secured notes due May 15, 2006, in the amount of $500 million, are refinanced on or prior to February 13, 2006. RJR can use the full facility to obtain loans or letters of credit, at its option. Certain of RJRs subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, and its parent, RAI, have guaranteed RJRs obligations under the revolving credit facility and have pledged certain of their assets to secure their obligations under the facility. Moodys rating of RJRs guaranteed, secured notes is Ba2, negative outlook, and Standard & Poors rating is BB+, negative outlook. Concerns about, or further lowering of, the ratings of RJRs guaranteed, secured notes by Standard & Poors or Moodys could have an adverse impact on RJRs ability to access the debt markets. However, given that RAI and its subsidiaries have cash balances, RAIs management believes that such concerns about, or further lowering of, such ratings would not have a material adverse impact on RAIs cash flows. RJR is not required to maintain compensating balances; however, RJR pays commitment fees of 1.5% per annum of the revolving credit facility committed amount. Borrowings under the revolving credit 74 Table of Contents facility bear interest at rates that vary with the prime rate or LIBOR. The credit facility also limits RAIs ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock, and limits RAI and its subsidiaries ability to incur indebtedness, engage in transactions with affiliates, create liens, acquire, sell or dispose of specific assets and engage in specified mergers or consolidations. Under the credit facility, cumulative dividends and share repurchases generally may not exceed the sum of $500 million plus 75% of cumulative adjusted cash net income. At December 31, 2004, RJR had $29 million in letters of credit outstanding under the facility. No borrowings were outstanding, and the remaining $457 million of the facility was available for borrowing. RJR has a $30 million uncommitted, unsecured line of credit with one bank. No borrowings were outstanding on this line of credit at December 31, 2004. RJRs $1.45 billion guaranteed, secured notes, unlike RJRs other non bank debt, are guaranteed by certain of RJRs subsidiaries, including RJR Tobacco, and its parent, RAI. Because RJR and the guarantors, including RAI, have pledged certain of their assets to secure their obligations under the revolving credit facility, as amended and restated, certain of the guarantors, which are considered restricted subsidiaries under the guaranteed, secured notes, have also pledged certain of their assets to secure these notes. Excluded from the pledge to secure these notes are intellectual property, inventory, accounts receivable, cash and certain other assets. Generally, the terms of these notes restrict the pledge of collateral, sale/leaseback transactions and the transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of RAI and its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2004, RJR had $139 million of unsecured notes outstanding, at fixed interest rates of 8.50% through 9.25%, due in 2005 through 2013. The estimated fair value of RJRs long term debt was $1.6 billion, $1.7 billion and $2.5 billion, with an effective average interest rate of 5.39%, 4.31% and 5.44%, as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The fair values are based on available market quotes and discounted cash flows, as appropriate. RJR uses interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on a portion of its debt obligations. As long as RJRs guaranteed, secured debt rating remains either one level below BBB by Standard & Poors or Baa3 by Moodys, or lower, any fair value that results in a liability position of the interest rate swaps, will require full collateralization with cash or securities. In addition, because RJR and the guarantors, including RAI and RJR Tobacco, have pledged their assets to secure their obligations under RJRs revolving credit facility, as amended and restated, such pledge also has secured their obligations under these interest rate swap agreements. RAI, RJR and their affiliates were in compliance with all covenants and restrictions imposed by the indebtedness at December 31, 2004. Litigation and Settlements Various legal actions, proceedings and claims, including legal actions claiming that lung cancer and other diseases, as well as addiction, have resulted from the use of, or exposure to, RAIs operating subsidiaries products, are pending or may be instituted against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates, including RAI, or indemnitees, including B&W. In July 2000, a jury in the Florida state court case Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. rendered a punitive damages verdict in favor of the Florida class of plaintiffs of approximately $145 billion, with approximately $36.3 billion and $17.6 billion being assigned to RJR Tobacco and B&W, respectively. RJR Tobacco, B&W and the other defendants appealed this verdict. On May 21, 2003, Floridas Third District Court of Appeal reversed the trial courts final judgment and remanded the case to the Dade County Circuit Court with instructions to decertify the class. On October 23, 2003, the plaintiffs filed a notice seeking review by the Florida Supreme Court. On May 12, 2004, the Florida Supreme Court agreed to review the case. Oral argument occurred on November 3, 2004. Although RJR Tobacco remains confident in the bases for appeal in this case, it cannot predict the final outcome of the appellate process. For further discussion of the Engle case and other litigation and legal proceedings pending against RAI or its affiliates or indemnitees, see Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry, Business Tobacco Buyout Legislation, Business ERISA Litigation and Business Environmental Matters in Item 1; Governmental Activity; note 13 to consolidated financial statements; and Exhibit 99.1 to this report. 75 Table of Contents Even though RAIs management continues to conclude that, other than the Boerner case discussed in Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry and note 13 to consolidated financial statements, the loss of any particular smoking and health tobacco litigation claim against RJR Tobacco or its affiliates, when viewed on an individual basis, is not probable, the possibility of material losses related to tobacco litigation is more than remote. However, RAIs management is unable to predict the outcome of such litigation or to reasonably estimate the amount or range of any possible loss. Moreover, notwithstanding the quality of defenses available to it and its affiliates in tobacco related litigation matters, it is possible that RAIs financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected by the ultimate outcome of certain pending or future litigation matters. In November 1998, RJR Tobacco, B&W and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers entered into the MSA with attorneys general representing most U.S. states, territories and possessions. As described under Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry in Item 1 and note 13 to consolidated financial statements, the MSA imposes a stream of future payment obligations on RJR Tobacco and the other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers and places significant restrictions on their ability to market and sell cigarettes in the future. The combined cash payments made by RJR Tobacco and B&W under the MSA and the other state settlement agreements were $2.8 billion, $2.7 billion and $3.7 billion in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. RJR Tobacco estimates these payments will exceed $2.6 billion in 2005, will exceed $2.5 billion in each of 2006 and 2007 and will exceed $2.7 billion thereafter. However, these payments will be subject to adjustments for, among other things, the volume of cigarettes sold by RJR Tobacco, RJR Tobaccos market share and inflation. RJR Tobacco cannot predict the impact on its business, competitive position or results of operations of the MSA and the other state settlement agreements, the business activity restrictions to which it is subject under these agreements or the price increases that it may be required to make as a result of these agreements. Governmental Activity The marketing, sale, taxation and use of cigarettes have been subject to substantial regulation by government and health officials for many years. Various state governments have adopted or are considering, among other things, legislation and regulations that would: increase their excise taxes on cigarettes; restrict displays and advertising of tobacco products; establish ignition propensity standards for cigarettes; raise the minimum age to possess or purchase tobacco products; ban the sale of flavored cigarette brands; require the disclosure of ingredients used in the manufacture of tobacco products; impose restrictions on smoking in public and private areas; and restrict the sale of tobacco products directly to consumers or other unlicensed recipients, including over the Internet. In addition, in 2005, the U.S. Congress may consider legislation regarding: further increases in the federal excise tax; regulation of cigarette manufacturing and sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; amendments to the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act to require additional warnings; reduction or elimination of the tax deductibility of advertising expenses; implementation of a national standard for fire safe cigarettes; 76 Table of Contents regulation of the retail sale of cigarettes over the Internet and in other non face to face retail transactions, such as by mail order and telephone; and banning the delivery of cigarettes by the U.S. Postal Service. Together with manufacturers price increases in recent years and substantial increases in state and federal excise taxes on cigarettes, these developments have had and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on cigarette sales. Cigarettes are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. The federal excise tax per pack of 20 cigarettes is $0.39. All states and the District of Columbia currently impose excise taxes at levels ranging from $0.03 per pack in Kentucky to $2.46 in Rhode Island. During 2004, nine states increased their excise taxes. These increases raised the weighted average state cigarette excise tax per pack from $0.70 at the beginning of 2004 to $0.79 on January 1, 2005. RJR Tobacco expects state excise taxes to increase even further in 2005 due to many states having budget shortfalls. Several states have pending legislation proposing excise tax increases. In 1964, the Report of the Advisory Committee to the Surgeon General of the U.S. Public Health Service concluded that cigarette smoking was a health hazard of sufficient importance to warrant appropriate remedial action. Since 1966, federal law has required a warning statement on cigarette packaging. Since 1971, television and radio advertising of cigarettes has been prohibited in the United States. Cigarette advertising in other media in the United States is required to include information with respect to the tar and nicotine yield of cigarettes, as well as a warning statement. During the past four decades, various laws affecting the cigarette industry have been enacted. In 1984, Congress enacted the Comprehensive Smoking Education Act. Among other things, the Smoking Education Act: establishes an interagency committee on smoking and health that is charged with carrying out a program to inform the public of any dangers to human health presented by cigarette smoking; requires a series of four health warnings to be printed on cigarette packages and advertising on a rotating basis; increases type size and area of the warning required in cigarette advertisements; and requires that cigarette manufacturers provide annually, on a confidential basis, a list of ingredients added to tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The warnings currently required on cigarette packages and advertisements are: SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, And May Complicate Pregnancy; SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks To Your Health; SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury, Premature Birth, and Low Birth Weight; and SURGEON GENERALS WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide. Since the initial report in 1964, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare (now the Secretary of Health and Human Services) and the Surgeon General have issued a number of other reports which purport to find the nicotine in cigarettes addictive and to link cigarette smoking and exposure to cigarette smoke with certain health hazards, including various types of cancer, coronary heart disease and chronic obstructive lung disease. These reports have recommended various governmental measures to reduce the incidence of smoking. In 1992, the federal Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Act was signed into law. This act requires states to adopt a minimum age of 18 for purchases of tobacco products and to establish a system to monitor, report and reduce the illegal sale of tobacco products to minors in order to continue receiving federal funding for 77 Table of Contents mental health and drug abuse programs. In January 1996, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced regulations implementing this legislation. Legislation imposing various restrictions on public smoking also has been enacted in 49 states and many local jurisdictions, and many employers have initiated programs restricting or eliminating smoking in the workplace. A number of states have enacted legislation designating a portion of increased cigarette excise taxes to fund either anti smoking programs, health care programs or cancer research. In addition, educational and research programs addressing health care issues related to smoking are being funded from industry payments made or to be made under settlements with state attorneys general. Federal law prohibits smoking in scheduled passenger aircraft, and the U.S. Interstate Commerce Commission has banned smoking on buses transporting passengers interstate. Certain common carriers have imposed additional restrictions on passenger smoking. In December 2003, the California Environmental Protection Agency Air Resources Board issued a Proposed Identification of Environmental Tobacco Smoke as a Toxic Air Contaminant for public review. If environmental tobacco smoke is identified as a toxic air contaminant, the Air Resources Board is required to prepare a report assessing the need and appropriate degree of control of environmental tobacco smoke. RJR Tobacco cannot predict the form any future California regulation may take. Several states have enacted or have proposed legislation or regulations that would require cigarette manufacturers to disclose the ingredients used in the manufacture of cigarettes. In September 2003, the Massachusetts Department of Public Health announced its intention to hold public hearings on amendments to its tobacco regulations. The proposed regulations would delete any ingredients reporting requirement. (The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit previously affirmed a ruling that the Massachusetts ingredient reporting law was unconstitutional.) MDPH has proposed to inaugurate extensive changes to its regulations requiring tobacco companies to report nicotine yield ratings for cigarettes according to methods prescribed by MDPH. Because MDPH withdrew its notice for a public hearing in November 2003, it is impossible to predict the final form any new regulations will take or the effect they will have on the business or results of operations of RJR Tobacco. On May 21, 1999, RJR Tobacco, B&W, Lorillard Tobacco Company and Philip Morris, Inc. filed lawsuits in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts to enjoin implementation of certain Massachusetts attorney general regulations concerning the advertisement and display of tobacco products. The regulations went beyond those required by the MSA, and banned outdoor advertising of tobacco products within 1,000 feet of any school or playground, as well as any indoor tobacco advertising placed lower than five feet in stores within the 1,000 foot zone. The district court ruled against the industry on January 25, 2000, and the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit affirmed. The United States Supreme Court granted the industrys petition for writ of certiorari on January 8, 2001, and ruled in favor of RJR Tobacco and the rest of the industry on June 28, 2001. The Supreme Court found that the regulations were preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, which precludes states from imposing any requirement or prohibition based on smoking and health with respect to the advertising or promotion of cigarettes labeled in conformity with federal law. In June 2000, the New York state legislature passed legislation charging the states Office of Fire Prevention and Control with developing standards for fire safe or self extinguishing cigarettes. On December 31, 2003, OFPC issued a final standard with accompanying regulations that requires all cigarettes offered for sale in New York State after June 28, 2004 to achieve specified test results when placed on ten layers of filter paper in controlled laboratory conditions. RAIs operating companies that sell cigarettes in New York state have provided written certification to both the OFPC and the Office of the Attorney General for New York that each of their cigarette brand styles currently sold in New York has been tested and has met the performance standards set forth in the OFPCs regulations. Design and manufacturing changes were made for cigarettes manufactured for sale in New York to comply with the standard. Similar legislation is being considered in a number of other states. Varying standards from state to state could have an adverse effect on the business or results of operations of RJR Tobacco. 78 Table of Contents A price differential exists between cigarettes manufactured for sale abroad and cigarettes manufactured for U.S. sale. Consequently, a domestic gray market has developed in cigarettes manufactured for sale abroad, but instead diverted for domestic sales that compete with cigarettes that RJR Tobacco manufactures for domestic sale. The U.S. federal government and all states, except Massachusetts, have enacted legislation prohibiting the sale and distribution of gray market cigarettes. In addition, RJR Tobacco has taken legal action against certain distributors and retailers who engage in such practices. Forty four states have passed, and various states are considering, legislation to ensure nonparticipating manufacturers, referred to as NPMs, under the MSA are making required escrow payments. Under this legislation, a state would only permit distribution of brands by manufacturers who are deemed by the states to be MSA compliant. Failure to make escrow payments could result in the loss of a nonparticipating manufacturers ability to sell tobacco products in a respective state. Early efforts to enact legislation, from 2001 to early 2002, resulted in a range of NPM laws, some containing only minimal requirements. However, once the National Association of Attorneys General, referred to as NAAG, became involved in the legislative initiative, model complementary NPM language was developed and introduced in the states where either no NPM laws existed or where existing laws needed to be amended to bring them in line with the model language. Additionally, 37 states have enacted, and several other states are considering, legislation that closes a loophole in the MSA. The loophole allows nonparticipating manufacturers to recover most of the funds from their escrow accounts. To obtain the refunds, the manufacturers must establish that their escrow deposit was greater than the amount the state would have received had the manufacturer been a subsequent participating manufacturer under the MSA. NAAG has endorsed adoption of these legislative efforts. Following a challenge by NPMs, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York has issued an order enjoining New York from enforcing allocable share legislation. It is possible that NPMs will challenge allocable share legislation passed in other states. Finally, four states, Alaska, Michigan, Minnesota and Utah, have enacted equity assessments on NPMs products. This legislative initiative has not been endorsed by NAAG. Thirty one states have passed and several additional states are considering statutes limiting the amount of the bonds required to file an appeal of an adverse judgment in state court. The limitation on the amount of such bonds generally ranges from $25 million to $150 million. Such bonding statutes allow defendants that are subject to large adverse judgments, such as cigarette manufacturers, to reasonably bond such judgments and pursue the appellate process. In six jurisdictions, Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont and Puerto Rico, the filing of a notice of appeal automatically stays the judgment of the trial court. On October 22, 2004, the President signed the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004, referred to as FETRA, eliminating the U.S. government tobacco production controls and price support program. The buyout of tobacco quota holders provided for in FETRA is funded by a direct quarterly assessment on every tobacco product manufacturer and importer, on a market share basis measured on volume to which federal excise tax is applied. The aggregate cost of the buyout is approximately $10.1 billion, payable over ten years. As a result of the tobacco buyout legislation, the MSA Phase II obligations established in 1999 and scheduled to expire by the end of 2010 will be continued, but will be offset against the tobacco quota buyout obligations. RJR Tobaccos annual payments for 2005 and thereafter were estimated to be approximately $135 million per year. RAIs operating subsidiaries will record the FETRA assessment on a quarterly basis upon required notification of assessments. Accrued but unpaid MSA Phase II obligations will be reversed as the right to offset such obligations is triggered. Contingent liabilities for liquidation of quota tobacco stock will be recorded when an assessment is made. RJR Tobacco estimates that its overall share of the buyout will approximate $2.4 billion to $2.9 billion prior to deducting permitted offsets under the MSA and expected cost savings on domestic leaf purchases as a result of the elimination of the tobacco quota program. On December 23, 2004, the North Carolina Business Court held that RJR Tobacco was entitled to a refund of its first three quarterly MSA Phase II payments made for 2004 of approximately $111 million, and was not obligated to make its fourth quarter payment, of approximately $37 million. This decision has been 79 Table of Contents appealed to the North Carolina Supreme Court. Any refund of amounts previously paid under the MSA will be recognized if, and when received. Total expense relating to the tobacco buyout for RAIs operating subsidiaries recorded during the fourth quarter of 2004 was $70 million, which triggered RJR Tobaccos reversal of $69 million of accrued but unpaid expense for the MSA Phase II obligations. RJR Tobacco expects to reverse $79 million of accrued but unpaid MSA Phase II obligations in 2005, primarily in the first quarter. For information concerning indemnifications between RJR Tobacco and B&W related to pre closing MSA liabilities, see note 1 of consolidated financial statements. On May 21, 2003, the World Health Organization adopted a broad tobacco control treaty. The treaty recommends and requires enactment of legislation establishing specific actions to prevent youth smoking, restrict and gradually eliminate tobacco products marketing, provide greater regulation and disclosure of ingredients, increase the size and scope of package warning labels to cover at least 30% of each package and include graphic pictures on packages. The treaty entered into force on February 27, 2005 90 days after ratification by the 40th country. Within a year of entering into force, a subsidiary body, the Conference of the Parties, will begin meeting to review national reports, provide further guidance on proper implementation of the treaty, initiate protocol negotiations and promote the mobilization of financial resources. Although the U.S. delegate to the World Health Organization voted for the treaty in May, 2003 and the Secretary for Health and Human Services signed the document in May 2004, it is not known whether the treaty will be signed by the President and sent to the U.S. Senate for ratification. Ratification of the treaty by the United States could lead to broader regulation of the industry. It is not possible to determine what additional federal, state or local legislation or regulations relating to smoking or cigarettes will be enacted or to predict the effect of new legislation or regulations on RJR Tobacco or the cigarette industry in general, but any new legislation or regulations could have an adverse effect on RJR Tobacco or the cigarette industry in general. For further discussion of litigation and legal proceedings pending against RJR, its affiliates, including RJR Tobacco, or indemnitees, see Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry, Business Tobacco Buyout Legislation, Business ERISA Litigation and Business Environmental Matters in Item 1; note 13 to consolidated financial statements; and Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Environmental Matters RAI and its subsidiaries are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. RAI and its subsidiaries have been engaged in a continuing program to assure compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Although it is difficult to identify precisely the portion of capital expenditures or other costs attributable to compliance with environmental laws and regulations, RAI does not expect such expenditures or other costs to have a material adverse effect on the business or financial condition of RAI or its subsidiaries. For further discussion of environmental matters, see Business Environmental Matters in Item 1 and note 13 to consolidated financial statements. Other Contingencies and Guarantees In connection with the business combination of RJR Tobacco and the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W on July 30, 2004, RAI and RJR Tobacco have agreed to indemnify B&W and its affiliates against any liabilities, costs and expenses incurred by B&W or its affiliates arising out of the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W combined with RJR Tobacco. Although it is impossible to predict the possibility or amount of any such liabilities, costs and expenses, a significant indemnification claim by B&W against either or both of RAI and RJR Tobacco could have an adverse effect on either or both of RAI and RJR Tobacco. Until the acquisition by merger by Philip Morris Companies, Inc. of Nabisco from NGH on December 11, 2000, NGH and Nabisco were members of the consolidated group of NGH for U.S. federal income 80 Table of Contents tax purposes. Each member of a consolidated group is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of other members of the group as well as for pension and funding liabilities of the other group members. NGH, now known as RJR Acquisition Corp., continues to be jointly and severally liable for these Nabisco liabilities prior to December 11, 2000. In connection with Philip Morriss acquisition by merger of Nabisco and RJRs subsequent acquisition by merger of NGH, Philip Morris, Nabisco and NGH entered into a voting and indemnity agreement and tax sharing agreement that generally seeks to allocate tax liabilities ratably based upon NGHs taxable income and that of Nabisco, had the parties been separate taxpayers. If Philip Morris and Nabisco are unable to satisfy their obligations under this agreement, NGH would be responsible for satisfying them. In connection with the sale of the international tobacco business to JTI, on May 12, 1999, RJR and RJR Tobacco agreed to indemnify JTI against: any liabilities, costs and expenses arising out of the imposition or assessment of any tax with respect to the international tobacco business arising prior to the sale, other than as reflected on the closing balance sheet; any liabilities, costs and expenses that JTI or any of its affiliates, including the acquired entities, may incur after the sale with respect to any of RJRs or RJR Tobaccos employee benefit and welfare plans; and any liabilities, costs and expenses incurred by JTI or any of its affiliates arising out of certain activities of Northern Brands. On August 13, 2004, RJR Tobacco received written notice from JTI under these indemnification provisions that the Quebec Ministry of Revenue had: issued a tax assessment for alleged unpaid duties, penalties and interest in an amount of $1.36 billion (Canadian) against JTI Macdonald, Corp., a former affiliate of Northern Brands; issued an order for the immediate payment of that amount; and obtained an ex parte judgment to enforce the payment of that amount. RJR Tobacco and JTI have different views regarding whether the current circumstances give rise to any indemnification obligation by RJR Tobacco. For further information about the JTI indemnification notice, see Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry Other Litigation and Developments, in Item 1. Although it is impossible to predict the outcome of the Northern Brands and related litigation or the amount of any indemnifiable liabilities, costs and expenses of JTI, a significant adverse outcome regarding any of these items could have an adverse effect on any or all of RAI, RJR and RJR Tobacco. RJR Tobacco, Santa Fe and Lane have entered into agreements to indemnify certain distributors and retailers from liability and related defense costs arising out of the sale or distribution of their products. Additionally, Santa Fe has entered into an agreement to indemnify a supplier from liability and related defense costs arising out of the sale or use of Santa Fes products. The costs of such defense indemnifications have been, and are expected to be, insignificant. RJR Tobacco, Santa Fe and Lane believe that the indemnified claims are substantially similar in nature and extent to the claims that they already are exposed to by virtue of their having manufactured those products. For further information related to the Northern Brands and related litigation and these guarantees, including probability and estimates of loss, see Business Litigation Affecting the Cigarette Industry Accounting for Tobacco Related Litigation Contingencies, in Item 1. As long as RJRs guaranteed, secured debt rating remains either one level below BBB by Standard & Poors or Baa3 by Moodys, or lower, any fair value that results in a liability position of the interest rate swaps will require full collateralization with cash or securities. 81 Table of Contents RAI is not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, related to these guarantees. RAI has recorded liabilities totaling $96 million and $108 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cautionary Information Regarding Forward Looking Statements Statements included in this report that are not historical in nature are forward looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements regarding RAIs future performance and financial results inherently are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, described in the forward looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include: the substantial and increasing regulation and taxation of the cigarette industry; various legal actions, proceedings and claims relating to the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes that are pending or may be instituted against RAI or its subsidiaries; the substantial payment obligations and limitations on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes under various litigation settlement agreements; the continuing decline in volume in the domestic cigarette industry; competition from other cigarette manufacturers, including increased promotional activities and the growth of deep discount brands; the success or failure of new product innovations and acquisitions; the responsiveness of both the trade and consumers to new products and marketing and promotional programs; the ability to realize the benefits and synergies arising from the combination of RJR Tobacco and the U.S. cigarette and tobacco business of B&W; any potential costs or savings associated with realigning the cost structure of RAI and its subsidiaries; the ability to achieve efficiencies in manufacturing and distribution operations without negatively affecting sales; the cost of tobacco leaf and other raw materials and other commodities used in products; the effect of market conditions on the performance of pension assets, foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and the return on corporate cash; the rating of RJRs securities; the ability to complete the sale of RJR Packaging, LLC, and any adverse impacts from the transition of operations to the buyers; and the potential existence of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting that may be identified during the performance of testing required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Due to these uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as provided by federal securities laws, RAI is not required to publicly update or revise any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. RAI and its subsidiaries are exposed to interest rate risk directly related to their normal investing and funding activities. In addition, 82 Table of Contents RAI and its subsidiaries have exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk concerning obligations for, and service agreements related to, foreign operations denominated in euros and British pounds. RAI and its subsidiaries have established policies and procedures to manage their exposure to market risks and use major institutions that are creditworthy to minimize their investment and credit risk. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading or speculative purposes. See note 14 to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding financial instruments entered into by RAI or its operating subsidiaries. The value at risk model is used to statistically measure the maximum fair value, cash flows and earnings loss over one year from adverse changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. The computation assumes a 95% confidence level under normal market conditions. The actual observed correlation method is used for aggregating value at risk amounts across market risk exposure categories. This model indicates that near term changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates will not have a material impact on the future earnings, fair values or cash flows, based on the historical movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and the fair value of market rate sensitive instruments at December 31, 2004. 83 Table of Contents 
 
