FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20021114172339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
Table of Contents
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Required FD Disclosure.
The Company has previously reported in current reports on Form 8-K and exhibits thereto its involvement in litigation entitled Ronnie and Nancy Haese, et al. v. H&R Block, Inc., et al., Case No. CV96-4213, in the District Court of Kleberg County, Texas. The Company reported that a hearing in that case was scheduled for Thursday, November 14, regarding the plaintiffs' motion for sanctions. On November 14, 2002, the defendants, including the Company, filed both a motion for a continuance as to the sanctions and objections to the proposed order relating to the rulings contained in the judge's letter dated November 6, 2002. The judge on November 14 granted the motion for a continuance and set both matters for consideration next Friday, November 22, 2002.
The information contained in this current report on Form 8-K may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements are based upon current information, expectations, estimates and projections regarding the Company, the industries and markets in which the Company operates, and management's assumptions and beliefs relating thereto. These statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, are not guarantees of future performance, and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what is expressed, implied or forecast in such forward-looking statements. Such differences could be caused by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the uncertainty of litigation, other risks associated with litigation, risks described from time to time in reports and registration statements filed by the Company and its subsidiaries with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers should take these factors and risks into account in evaluating any such forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


