FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20051107172937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): November 3, 2005
 
H&R BLOCK, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
          
4400 Main Street, Kansas City, MO
64111
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)      
(Zip Code)
 
(816) 753-6900
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the resignation referred to in Item 5.02 of this current report on Form 8-K, the Employment Agreement between HRB Management, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki dated September 7, 1999 will be terminated effective November 30, 2005.
 
 
On November 3, 2005, Jeffery W. Yabuki resigned as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, effective November 30, 2005. A copy of the related press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
H&R BLOCK, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
For Further Information:
Linda McDougall, Media Relations, 816-932-7542,
lmcdougall@hrblock.com
Scott Dudley, Investor Relations, 816-932-8342,
sdudley@hrblock.com
 
H&R BLOCK ANNOUNCES MANAGEMENT CHANGE
 
FOR RELEASE NOV. 7, 2005, 4:30 p.m. EST
 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  H&R Block Inc. (NYSE:HRB) today announced that Jeffery W. Yabuki, executive vice president and chief operating officer, will leave the company at the end of the month to become president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors of Fiserv Inc. (Nasdaq: FISV). The Brookfield, Wis., company provides information management systems and services worldwide to the financial and health benefits industries.
 
Yabuki joined H&R Block in 1999 and most recently has been responsible for aligning the delivery of financial services with the company's tax clients. "I have been fortunate to work for a company whose mission is to help people improve their lives and achieve their financial goals. H&R Block people share a strong commitment to serving our clients, and that has made my decision to leave a difficult one," Yabuki said. "However, my long-term career aspiration has been to lead and grow a company, and Fiserv presents me with that opportunity."
 
H&R Block Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark A. Ernst noted that the timing of Yabuki's departure, combined with the company's strong leadership, will ensure a smooth transition. "One of the legacies Jeff leaves at H&R Block is the talented management team that he has helped recruit and develop," Ernst said. "While we'll miss Jeff, we have many bright, energetic and experienced leaders in key positions, and I'm confident in their abilities.
 
"I have known Jeff for many years, working with him at H&R Block and American Express, and therefore, I'm in a unique position to appreciate what a good opportunity this is for him," Ernst said. "I am very grateful for his many contributions to H&R Block, and although I'm sorry to see Jeff leave, I'm pleased that he'll be in a position to lead and inspire a new group of associates."
 
The company said it will consider both internal and external candidates in filling Yabuki's position.
 
 
 
 
About H&R Block:
 
H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) is a leading provider of tax, financial, mortgage, accounting and business consulting products and services. H&R Block is the world's largest tax services provider, having prepared more than 400 million tax returns since 1955. The company and its subsidiaries generated revenues of $4.4 billion and net income of $636 million in fiscal year 2005 from operations in four principal business segments: tax preparation and advice via in-office, online and software solutions; investment and financial advisory services; retail and wholesale mortgage services; and tax, accounting and business consulting services for midsized businesses. Headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., H&R Block markets its products and services under three leading brands  H&R Block, Option One and RSM McGladrey.  For more information, visit our Online Press Center at www.hrblock.com. 
 
###
 
 
 
 
 
 


