FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20050914122407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): September 8, 2005
 
H&R BLOCK, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
        
4400 Main Street, Kansas City, MO
64111
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
      
(Zip Code)
 
(816) 753-6900
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On September 8, 2005, Option One Mortgage Corporation ("OOMC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of H&R Block, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into Omnibus Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 8, 2005 among OOMC, Option One Owner Trust 2002-3 (the "Trust"), and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo") (the "Amendment").
 
The purpose of the Amendment was to extend the term of OOMC's off-balance sheet financing arrangement with UBS to fund daily non-prime originations through September 8, 2006, subject to various triggers, events or occurrences that could result in earlier termination (the "UBS Warehouse Facility").
 
The UBS Warehouse Facility provides funding totaling $1,500,000,000, bears interest at one-month LIBOR plus a margin rate, and provides for the payment of minimum usage fees. The UBS Warehouse Facility is also subject to various OOMC performance triggers, limits and financial covenants, including a tangible net worth requirement, capital adequacy test, net income test, liquidity requirements, leverage ratios and cross-default features in which a default under other arrangements to fund daily non-prime originations would trigger a default under the UBS Warehouse Facility.
 
Under the UBS Warehouse Facility, non-prime loans originated by OOMC are sold daily to the Trust, which utilizes the UBS Warehouse Facility to purchase the loans. The Trust subsequently sells the loans directly to third-party investors or back to OOMC to pool the loans for securitization, as directed by its third-party beneficial interest holders. The decision to complete a whole loan sale or a securitization is dependent on market conditions. See "Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements" in Item 7 of the Company's Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005.
 
Certain parties to the UBS Warehouse Facility have other relationships with the Company or its affiliates. Affiliates of UBS and Wells Fargo are lending parties pursuant to credit facilities maintained by Block Financial Corporation ("BFC"), as borrower, and the Company, as guarantor, with various lenders.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
H&R BLOCK, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
 


