FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20061130162828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): November 29, 2006
 
H&R BLOCK, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
One H&R Block Way, Kansas City, MO 64105
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
 
(816) 854-3000
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 2.02.
  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 30, 2006, H&R Block, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding the Company's results of operations for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
(e) On November 29, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors approved a retention award for Robert E. Dubrish, President and Chief Executive Officer of Option One Mortgage Corporation ("OOMC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Mr. Dubrish will receive the retention award if he remains employed by OOMC through the date of a potential separation of OOMC from the Company (the "Separation Date"). Pursuant to the retention award (i) restrictions on restricted shares of the Company's common stock currently held by Mr. Dubrish would lapse and become fully vested as of the Separation Date and (ii) Mr. Dubrish would receive a cash payment of approximately $420,000.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
H&R BLOCK, INC.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

 
For Further Information
 
 
H&R BLOCK ANNOUNCES FISCAL 2007 SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
 
Tax Services Prepared for Solid Upcoming Season
Weakness in Mortgage Industry Drives Larger Loss
 
FOR RELEASE Nov. 30, 2006 4:00 p.m. EST
 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) today reported a net loss of $156.5 million, or 49 cents per basic and diluted share, for the fiscal 2007 second quarter ended Oct. 31, compared with a loss of $81.2 million, or 25 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter. Due to the seasonality of its Tax Services business segment, the company normally reports an operating loss for its fiscal first and second quarters. Revenues in the quarter were $563.2 million versus $605.0 million in the prior-year period.
 
"Our largest business, Tax Services, performed in line with expectations. Pre-season results in November were encouraging, and we believe H&R Block is solidly positioned for a successful tax season," said Mark A. Ernst, chairman and chief executive officer. "In Business Services, RSM McGladrey reported strong top-line revenue growth, and Consumer Financial Services moved closer to our profitability targets.
 
"The issue for us in the second quarter was ongoing weakness in the mortgage industry," Ernst continued. Option One Mortgage was affected by the industrywide trend of reduced origination volumes, reduced gain on sale margins and increased provisions for loan losses.
 
"As we consider strategic alternatives for Option One, we remain focused on maintaining its position as a leading non-prime originator," Ernst said, citing a recently announced restructuring to further align capacity and costs with lower volumes. H&R Block announced Nov. 6 that it was evaluating strategic alternatives for Option One, including sale or a public market transaction.
 
"We expect to determine our course of action during the first quarter of calendar 2007," Ernst said.
 
- more -
H&R Block Reports Fiscal 2007 Second Quarter Results/page 2
 
For the six months ended Oct. 31, 2006, H&R Block reported a net loss of $287.8 million, or 89 cents per share, compared with a loss of $109.2 million, or 33 cents per share, for the same period of fiscal 2006. Six-month revenues were $1.1 billion in fiscal 2007 versus $1.2 billion last year.
 
Tax Services
 
Second quarter 2007 revenues edged up 2 percent to $82.1 million from $80.8 million in the prior-year period. A pretax loss of $167.4 million in the fiscal 2007 quarter compared with a $142.9 million loss posted last year, and was primarily due to added costs associated with offices that opened early in November, initiatives to ensure systemwide operational readiness for the upcoming tax season, and the incremental off-season costs of a larger number of offices. The company's office network is on track to grow by 300 to 400 locations for the coming tax season to about 12,500 across the United States, after adding approximately 1,000 offices in fiscal 2006.
 
"We are pleased with the execution of our strategy to open some offices earlier and with the success of our pre-tax season loan product," Ernst said. In early November, H&R Block announced plans to strengthen its competitive leadership in the early season by offering an Instant Money Advance Loan that can save clients up to 50 percent on fees versus competitive offerings and can link with a low-cost bank account.
 
For the first six months of fiscal 2007, revenues of $148.1 million were up 7 percent from $138.0 million last year. The pretax loss of $320.6 million compares with a loss of $287.4 million in the year-ago period.
 
Mortgage Services
 
Mortgage Services revenues decreased to $140.6 million in the fiscal 2007 second quarter from $235.8 million last year. The decrease was driven by lower originations and by a decrease in gains on sale due to lower than expected loan sale premiums and higher provisions for loan losses. The business posted a pretax loss of $39.0 million versus pretax income of $48.8 million a year ago.
 
Non-prime loan origination volume was $6.6 billion versus a record $12.2 billion in the year-ago quarter and $7.8 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, as softness in the U.S. housing market and tightened loan underwriting continued to suppress loan volume.
 
Net gain on sale-gross margin for Mortgage Services was 37 basis points compared with 81 basis points in the fiscal year's first quarter, reflecting losses on derivatives and lower loan sale premiums.
 
Loan loss provisions totaled 69 basis points in the second quarter due to continued high default rates and greater loss severity. As a result of changes in loss severity estimates, the second quarter provision includes approximately 19 basis points related to production in prior periods.
 
- more -
H&R Block Reports Fiscal 2007 Second Quarter Results/page 3
 
"We believe changes we've made to our operations, products and pricing will improve loan performance and profitability as underwriting changes make their way through our loan pipeline," Ernst stated.
 
Non-prime loan origination costs were 1.59 percent of origination volume in the second quarter of 2007 versus 1.41 percent in the year's first quarter and 1.29 percent a year ago, reflecting declines in origination volumes without a fully corresponding ability to reduce fixed costs.
 
"We should see benefits in the future from our work to implement further improvements in the origination process along with staffing and technology changes," Ernst added.
 
Option One's mortgage servicing portfolio was $73.0 billion at the end of the quarter, down approximately $2 billion from the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Compared with the first quarter, servicing revenue rose to $113.7 million from $109.0 million, while pretax income declined 2 percent to $20.7 million.
 
The company incurred $12.2 million in residual asset impairments, which were recorded as a reduction in gains on sale of mortgage assets in the income statement. The company also realized a net write-up to residuals of $7.6 million in the second quarter, which was recorded in other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes.
 
For the first six months of fiscal 2007, revenues decreased to $310.3 million from $540.8 million in the prior year period, and a pretax loss of $44.0 million compared with pretax income of $179.5 million last year.
 
Business Services
 
Business Services revenues rose 37 percent to $229.1 million in the 2007 second quarter from $166.8 million a year earlier. The majority of the increase was due to the addition of American Express Tax and Business Services (Amex TBS), which was acquired effective Oct. 1, 2005. RSM McGladrey's legacy tax, accounting and consulting operations also achieved solid double-digit growth.
 
The segment's pretax loss of $18.7 million versus $2.1 million a year ago primarily reflects higher off-season costs associated with the addition of Amex TBS, incremental spending to build brand awareness, and higher losses in certain of its extended businesses.
 
Six-month segment revenues were $434.2 million, up 48 percent from $293.7 million in last year's period. The fiscal year-to-date pretax loss was $33.3 million versus a loss of $8.9 million in the prior year period.
 
Consumer Financial Services
 
Consumer Financial Services became a new segment effective May 1, 2006, and comprises H&R Block Financial Advisors, H&R Block Mortgage and H&R Block Bank (which began operations May 1). Second quarter revenues for the segment were
 
- more -
H&R Block Reports Fiscal 2007 Second Quarter Results/page 4
 
$112.4 million versus $121.7 million last year, while the pretax loss decreased to $6.6 million from $10.5 million last year.
 
"Our new segment is moving toward profitability," Ernst said. "The financial advisory and retail mortgage businesses will continue to build on strong relationships with our tax professionals to provide clients with integrated financial advice and products, and we're excited about the opportunities our new bank brings."
 
H&R Block Financial Advisors again improved its results over prior year. Financial advisor productivity rose 4 percent over last year's quarter. The company continued to be successful in recruiting top producers in a highly competitive market.
 
H&R Block Mortgage Corp. originated $769.3 million in loans during the second quarter, selling $471.2 million of non-prime loans to Option One and the remaining prime production to a third party.
 
Total assets for H&R Block Bank grew to $762.1 million at the end of the second quarter from $566.8 million three months earlier. "The Bank continues to build its deposit base and the investment side of its balance sheet, moving its performance metrics closer to planned levels for its initial year of operation," Ernst said.
 
For the first six months of fiscal 2007, segment revenues were $220.7 million versus $246.1 million, and pretax loss was $14.4 million versus $14.2 million last year.
 
Dividend Approved
 
H&R Block's board of directors yesterday approved a quarterly cash dividend of 13.5 cents per share, payable Jan. 2, 2007, to shareholders of record Dec. 12, 2006. The payment will be the company's 177 consecutive quarterly dividend.
th
 
Other
 
Intersegment activities, which primarily involve sales of mortgage loans from Option One to H&R Block Bank, and from H&R Block Mortgage to Option One, are included in segment results but eliminated in consolidation. Intersegment gains of $4.1 million for the quarter and $14.4 million for the six-month period on loan sales from Option One to H&R Block Bank were eliminated in consolidation.
 
During the six months, the company reacquired 8.4 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of $186.6 million, or an average purchase price of $22.26 per share.
 
The company continues to expect fiscal 2007 earnings to be $1.20 to $1.45 per share, a lowered range announced Nov. 6 reflecting less favorable conditions in the mortgage market. The volatility within the earnings range will continue to be a function of the changing mortgage market and the company's ability to effectively manage its mortgage business under those conditions during its assessment of strategic alternatives for Option One.
 
- more -
H&R Block Reports Fiscal 2007 Second Quarter Results/page 5
 
Conference Call
 
H&R Block will host a conference call for analysts, institutional investors and shareholders at 5 p.m. EST (4 p.m. CST) on Thursday, Nov. 30. Mark Ernst and Bill Trubeck, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will discuss second quarter results and future expectations as well as respond to analysts' questions. To access the call, please dial the number below approximately five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled starting time:
 
 
The call will be webcast in a listen-only format for the media and public. The link to the webcast can be obtained at www.hrblock.com. A supporting slide presentation will be available in connection with the webcast and can be accessed directly on H&R Block's Investor Relations Web site, at www.hrblock.com, by clicking on Our Company, then Block Investors.
 
A replay of the call will be available beginning at 6 p.m. EST Nov. 30 and continuing until 12:00 p.m. EST Jan. 14, 2007, by dialing (888) 286-8010 (U.S./Canada) or (617) 801-6888 (International). The replay access code is 83225731. A replay of the webcast will also be available on the company's Web site at www.hrblock.com.
 
Forward Looking Statement
The information contained in this press release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements are based upon current information and management's expectations regarding the company, speak only as of the date on which they are made, are not guarantees of future performance, and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results could materially differ from what
is expressed, implied or forecast in such forward-looking statements.
 
Such differences could be caused by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the uncertainty of the entry by the company into an agreement regarding any sale or public market alternative involving the separation of Option One Mortgage Corp.; the uncertainty regarding the completion of any such transaction; the uncertainty that the
company will achieve or exceed its revenue, earnings, and earnings-per-share growth goals or expectations for fiscal year 2007; the uncertainty of the company's ability to purchase shares of its common stock pursuant to the board of directors' authorization; the uncertainty of the impact and effect of changes in the non-prime mortgage market, including changes in interest rates, loan origination volume and levels of early payment defaults and resulting loan repurchases; changes in the company's effective income tax rate; litigation involving the company and its subsidiaries; changes in market, economic, political or regulatory environments; changes in management and strategies; and risks described from time to time in reports and statements filed by the company and its subsidiaries with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
About H&R Block
H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) is a leading provider of tax, financial, mortgage, accounting and business consulting services and products.  H&R Block is the world's largest tax services provider, having prepared more than 400 million tax returns since 1955.  The company and its subsidiaries generated revenues of $4.9 billion and net income of $490 million in fiscal year 2006.  The company operates in four principal business segments: Tax Services (income tax
 
- more -
H&R Block Reports Fiscal 2007 Second Quarter Results/page 6
 
preparation and advice via in-office, online and software solutions); Mortgage Services (non-prime mortgage originations and loan servicing); Business Services (tax, accounting and consulting services for midsized businesses); and Consumer Financial Services (investment and financial advisory services, retail mortgage loans and banking services).  Headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., H&R Block markets its services and products under three leading brands  H&R Block, Option One and RSM McGladrey.  For more information visit our Online Press Center at
www.hrblock.com
.
 
Tables follow
 
- more -
 
 
 
KEY OPERATING RESULTS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
 
Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of shares outstanding. The dilutive effect of potential common shares is included in diluted earnings per share except in those periods with a loss.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on the consolidated results of operations or stockholders' equity as previously reported.
In March 2006, the Office of Thrift Supervision approved the charter of H&R Block Bank. The bank commenced operations on May 1, 2006, at which time we realigned our segments to reflect a new management reporting structure. The previously reported Investment Services segment, H&R Block Mortgage Corporation (which was previously included in the Mortgage Services segment), and H&R Block Bank are now being reported in the Consumer Financial Services segment.
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Amounts in thousands, except share data
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands, except per share data
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Unaudited, amounts in thousands
 
 
 
 
SELECTED OPERATING DATA
Unaudited
 
 
 
 
 
 
Includes only accounts with a positive period-end balance.
(1)
Non-interest expenses divided by total revenue less interest expense. See reconcilation of non-GAAP financial measures.
(2)
Annualized net interest revenue divided by average assets. See reconcilation of non-GAAP financial measures.
(3)
Annualized pretax banking income divided by average assets. See reconcilation of non-GAAP financial measures.
(4)
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Unaudited, dollars in thousands
 
 
 
 
 


