FILE:HRB/HRB-8K-20060426171553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): April 24, 2006
 
H&R BLOCK, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)
 
4400 Main Street, Kansas City, MO
                     
64111
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
                 
(Zip Code)
 
(816) 753-6900
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
 
 
 
In connection with the election of Jerry D. Choate to its Board of Directors (See Item 5.02 below), H&R Block, Inc. (the "Company") will enter into its standard form Indemnification Agreement for Directors with Mr. Choate.
 
 
Effective April 24, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors elected Jerry D. Choate to the Board of Directors as a Class II director. Mr. Choate was not elected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any person. Mr. Choate is not a party to any transaction, or series of transactions, required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing the election of Mr. Choate is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
H&R BLOCK, INC.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
For Further Information
 
Media Relations:
Linda McDougall, 816-932-7542,
lmcdougall@hrblock.com
Investor Relations:
Scott Dudley, 816-932-8342,
scott.dudley@hrblock.com
 
H&R BLOCK ADDS JERRY CHOATE TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
FOR RELEASE APRIL 25, 2006
 
KANSAS CITY, Mo.  H&R Block Inc. (NYSE:HRB) today announced the election of Jerry D. Choate to its board of directors effective April 24, 2006. Mr. Choate becomes the eleventh member of H&R Block's board.
 
Mr. Choate retired in January 1999 after a 36-year career with Allstate Corp., an insurance holding company, where he had served as the company's chairman and chief executive officer since 1995.
 
"Jerry brings a wealth of management experience to H&R Block's board and will be a strong addition," said Tom D. Seip, chairman of the board's governance and nominating committee.
 
Mark A. Ernst, H&R Block's chairman and chief executive officer said, "Jerry's background in the consumer financial services industry will be valuable to me and our management team as we expand the ways in which we serve our clients."
 
Mr. Choate is also a director of Amgen Inc. and Valero Energy Corp., and serves on the board of trustees for the Van Kampen Mutual Funds. He is a graduate of San Jose State University in California.
 
Nine of H&R Block's 11 directors are independent, based on the board's 2006 determination. Mr. Ernst is the only employee director.
 
About H&R Block
H&R Block Inc. (NYSE: HRB) is a leading provider of tax, financial, mortgage, accounting and business consulting services and products. H&R Block is the world's largest tax services provider, having prepared more than 400 million tax returns since 1955. The company and its subsidiaries generated revenues of $4.4 billion and net income of $636 million in fiscal year 2005 from operations in four principal business segments: tax preparation and advice via in-office, online and software solutions; investment and financial advisory services; retail and wholesale mortgage services; and tax/accounting/business consulting services for mid-sized businesses. Headquartered in Kansas City, Mo., H&R Block markets its services and products under three leading brands  H&R Block, Option One and RSM McGladrey. For more information visit our Online Press Center at www.hrblock.com. 
 
# # #
 
 
 
 


